__Sarvesh Shrivastava__
__@bloggersarvesh__
If I woke up bankrupt tomorrow, this is exactly how I’d get to $100k/month with SEO.
I’m skipping the theory and giving you the RAW 90-day step by step playbook I charge $1,700/hr to implement for businesses.
If you’ve run a local business long enough, you already know SEO matters.
You’ve probably paid for it.
You’ve probably been promised results.
And you’ve probably been disappointed.
Not because SEO doesn’t work.
But because when money is tight, most SEO advice collapses.
This article exists for one specific scenario:
You’re a local business owner in the U.S.
You’re out of cash.
Ads are not an option.
And SEO has to work.
This is not theory.
This is the execution order I’d follow if failure wasn’t allowed.
I’ve seen this SEO confusion so often that I ended up speaking about it on a TEDx stage.
__https://youtu.be/2B79SIsRP0w?si=0DsXJi3X_jOf3xaD__
The first rule: bankruptcy changes the goal of SEO
When you’re bankrupt, traffic doesn’t matter.
Rankings don’t matter.
“Brand” doesn’t matter.
Only one thing matters:
Phone calls that turn into revenue.
Most SEO fails because it optimizes for visibility.
Under pressure, SEO must optimize for intent.
So before touching a website, content, or tools, the first decision is this:
What searches indicate someone is ready to hire now?
Everything that follows depends on this.
I. I would ignore 90% of keywords on purpose
If you’re broke, you cannot afford broad keywords.
You don’t need:
* “What is HVAC?”
* “How much does roofing cost?”
* “Best plumbing tips”
Those keywords create traffic.
They don’t create cash.
I would focus on bottom-of-funnel local intent only:
* service + city
* emergency + service
* near me + service
* service + problem
These keywords are boring.
They don’t impress SEOs.
They convert.
That’s the point.
II. I would rebuild the site around money pages only
Most local business websites are content-first.
That’s backwards.
Under pressure, the site exists for one reason: to route Google traffic into service pages that sell.
I would create:
* one primary service page per core service
* one page per service + primary city
* zero fluff pages
Each page would answer:
* What problem do you solve?
* Where do you solve it?
* Why should someone trust you today?
Internal links would point toward these pages, not away from them.
III. I would treat Google Business Profile as the main asset
When cash is tight, the fastest ROI in local SEO comes from one place:
Google Business Profile.
This is where most local SEO money is made. And also where most businesses underperform.
I would:
* lock the correct primary category
* fully populate services (not just categories)
* rewrite the business description for search intent, not branding
* upload real photos consistently
* turn messaging on and respond fast
* build a review acquisition loop that runs weekly
This is not optimization. It’s maintenance.
Google rewards businesses that behave like they’re alive.
IV. I would stop thinking about backlinks as “SEO work”
When you’re broke, backlinks feel risky. They shouldn’t.
Backlinks are not about rankings. They are about trust transfer.
I would not chase:
* DR
* link counts
* packages
I would do this instead:
* identify competitors already ranking
* reverse-engineer where they’re getting links
* vet sites manually
* place a small number of links that make sense contextually
Two to four real links per month is enough if everything else is aligned.
More links won’t save a broken foundation. But the right links compound a solid one.
V. I would use content only as support, not strategy
Content is not the growth lever for a bankrupt local business.
It is a support system.
Most businesses fail with content because they treat it as the engine:
publish more, target volume, wait for traffic.
That approach assumes time and runway.
You don’t have either.
Under pressure, content has only three jobs.
If a piece of content doesn’t do at least one of these, I wouldn’t create it.
1. Content must remove objections before the call
When someone searches for a service, they’re not undecided.
They’re cautious.
Content should exist to answer the questions they’re already thinking but not asking on the phone:
* “Is this problem urgent?”
* “Is this common?”
* “Is this fixable?”
* “How bad does this get if I wait?”
This is where problem-based content comes in.
Examples:
* “Why your AC stops cooling in extreme heat”
* “What causes sudden roof leaks after storms”
* “When a clogged drain becomes an emergency”
These pages don’t chase volume.
They exist to:
* frame urgency
* normalize the problem
* funnel readers into the service page
Every one of these pages would internally link to the relevant service page.
Always.
2. Content must strengthen service page relevance
Google does not rank pages in isolation.
It ranks clusters.
A service page supported by nothing looks weak.
A service page surrounded by relevant context looks intentional.
So I would create content that:
* explains sub-problems of the main service
* covers edge cases
* answers follow-up questions Google expects
Not long.
Not comprehensive.
Focused.
Example:
A “Water Heater Repair” service page should be supported by content like:
* “Signs your water heater is about to fail”
* “Why water heaters leak from the bottom”
* “Gas vs electric water heater repair considerations”
This content is not meant to rank independently.
It exists to confirm topical authority.
3. Content must reinforce internal linking paths
Internal links are not navigation.
They are signals.
Most sites link randomly.
Under pressure, links must be deliberate.
I would ensure:
* all supporting content links up to money pages
* money pages link out to clarifying content where helpful
* no orphaned posts
* no dead-end articles
The internal structure should make it obvious to Google: “This service page is the center of gravity.”
If content doesn’t strengthen that gravity, it’s noise.
VI. I would measure only three things
Under pressure, dashboards are useless.
I would track:
1. Rankings for money keywords
2. Calls from organic and GBP
3. Revenue attributed to those calls
If rankings move but calls don’t, something is broken.
If calls move but revenue doesn’t, the business model is broken.
SEO cannot fix pricing, sales, or service quality. It can only amplify what exists.
VII. The 90-day reality
SEO does not magically produce $100k/month.
But when done correctly:
* visibility compounds
* calls become predictable
* revenue stabilizes
Most businesses fail at SEO because they treat it like a task.
Something to outsource. Something to “do.”
Under pressure, SEO must be treated like a system.
A closed loop. With intent at the center.
Execution in the right order. And no wasted motion.
Why this works when other approaches fail
Because this approach is built for constraints.
It assumes:
* limited budget
* limited time
* no margin for experimentation
It removes everything that feels good but doesn’t pay.
When SEO is stripped down to intent, structure, trust, and consistency,
results stop feeling random.
They become boring. Predictable. Repeatable.
Which is exactly what you want when your livelihood depends on it.
And once you see SEO through this lens, you don’t go back to guessing.
Even when you’re no longer bankrupt.
Many owners understand this framework but don’t have the time to execute it cleanly.
That’s where my team comes in.
BUT we work with only a handful of local businesses that want to OWN their city, not “rank a bit higher”.  
If your plan is to “try some of this” and see… don’t apply.  
ONLY If you are serious about scaling your business to $100K/month..
Apply here:__ ____https://alventramarketing.com__ 
- Sarvesh
__Nav Toor__
__@heynavtoor__
How to set up Claude Cowork the right way(so it actually does your work while you step away)
The people who are "getting" AI in 2026 aren’t the ones writing the cleverest prompts.
They’re the ones who figured out Cowork.
I started using Claude Cowork the week it launched in January 2026. Within a month it became the first thing I open every morning — before email, before Notion, before anything else. Not because someone told me to. Because it kept finishing work I used to spend hours doing myself.
I’ve spent the last three years building AI workflows for my work. Thousands of prompts tested. Dozens of tools tried. So when I tell you Cowork changed how I operate, I’m not saying it lightly.
This is the guide I wish someone had handed me before I wasted time figuring it out alone. Every feature. Every setup step. Every first prompt. And the honest version of where it falls short.
1. Save this guide and spend 30 minutes this weekend to set up Cowork properly.
2. Send it to anyone asking you, “I keep hearing about Claude but I’ve never tried it.”
Cowork is not a chatbot. It’s something else entirely.
Most people think Claude is like ChatGPT. A text box. You type, it responds. That’s__ ____claude.ai__ — the browser version.
Claude Cowork is different. It lives on your desktop. It reads and writes to folders on your actual computer. It creates Word documents. It builds spreadsheets with working formulas. It installs specialist plugins for your exact job. And when it doesn’t have enough information to do something well, it asks you — instead of guessing and giving you polished garbage.
Cowork is what happened when Anthropic took the power of Claude Code — their agentic developer tool — and rebuilt it for the rest of us. No terminal. No command line. No code. Just: describe the outcome you want, point it at your files, and step away.
I describe what I need. Cowork asks me three questions. I answer them. I come back 20 minutes later to a finished document. That loop now covers about 60% of my knowledge work.
Cowork is not one feature. It’s five.
1. File System Access — Claude reads and writes to your actual computer
2. AskUserQuestion — it forces clarity instead of guessing
3. Plugins — specialist packs for your exact role
4. Instructions — permanent memory that loads every session
5. Connectors — live integrations with Slack, Drive, Notion, and 50+ tools
I ranked them by how much they changed how I work. Start at the top.
1. File System Access
What it is (in 10 words): Claude reads and writes files in a folder on your computer.
Why it matters
Every other AI tool runs on uploads. You export a file. You drag it into the chat. You wait. You get an output. You download it. You put it back wherever it came from.
Cowork eliminates that entire loop. You select a folder on your computer. Claude reads everything inside it. When it creates something — a document, a spreadsheet, a summary — it saves directly to that folder. No manual steps.
This sounds like a small thing. It isn’t. It’s the difference between AI as a tool you go to and AI as a collaborator that works in your environment.
Cowork can read your old reports to match your formatting. It can pull data from last month’s spreadsheet to build this month’s. It can reference your brand guidelines mid-task without you mentioning them. All because you pointed it at the right folder and it
How to set it up
1. Go to__ claude.com/download__. Download the desktop app (macOS or Windows x64).
2. You need a paid plan. Pro is $20/month. Max starts at $100/month for heavier usage.
3. Open the app. At the top, you’ll see a toggle. Switch to the Cowork tab.
4. Click the folder icon or “Select Folder” and choose a local folder from your computer.
5. Everything in that folder is now readable by Claude for the duration of your session.
Pro tip: The context files strategy
The mindset shift that matters most: stop thinking about better prompts and start thinking about better files.
Create a dedicated folder called “Claude Context.” Inside it, build three files:
* about-me.md — who you are, what you do, your role, what success looks like in your work
* brand-voice.md — how you communicate. Your phrases. What sounds wrong to you. Examples of writing you’re proud of.
* working-style.md — how you like Claude to behave. Do you want questions first? Short or long outputs? Which file formats?
The more quality context you give Claude in these files, the less prompting you need. Output quality goes from “generic AI” to “this actually sounds like something I’d write.”
These files compound over time. Every week you refine them, Claude gets better at your specific work. It’s the most underrated setup step in this entire guide.
Your first prompt
Read all the files in this folder completely. Then give me a summary of what you know about me, how I work, and what context you have access to.
2. AskUserQuestion
What it is (in 10 words): Cowork asks YOU questions instead of guessing and getting it wrong
Why it matters
Here’s what every other AI does when you give it an unclear task: it guesses. Confidently. It picks an interpretation, runs with it, and gives you a polished output that answers the wrong question.
You asked for a client proposal. It gives you a generic one. You asked for a summary. It summarizes the wrong things. You asked for a report. It writes it in the wrong tone.
Cowork does something different. When it needs more information, it stops and generates a form. Multiple-choice questions. Specific options. A structured prompt that helps you think through what you actually want.
I use this as the starting point for every non-trivial task. I don’t try to write perfect prompts anymore. I let Cowork figure out what it needs to know. And if the first round of questions doesn’t get us aligned, I say so. It generates a new set and we iterate.
With a context window of over one million tokens, I’ve also stopped worrying about hallucinations on complex projects. When Claude has read all the relevant files and clarified the task through questions, the output is consistently grounded in what’s actually true.
How to use it
Add this line to the end of any prompt:
DO NOT start working yet. First, ask me clarifying questions so we can define the approach together. Only begin once we’ve aligned
Or use this as your default opener for almost any task:
Your first prompt
I want to [YOUR TASK] so that [WHAT GOOD LOOKS LIKE].  First, read all uploaded files completely before responding.  DO NOT start executing yet. Ask me clarifying questions (use AskUserQuestion) to refine the approach. Only begin work once we’ve aligned.
Try it once. You’ll never go back to writing long, carefully engineered prompts from scratch.
The mindset shift: ChatGPT trained you to write better prompts. Cowork trains you to give better context. One is a skill that deprecates. The other compounds.
3. Plugins
What they are (in 10 words): Pre-built specialist packs that make Claude an expert instantly.
Why they matter
Without a plugin, Claude Cowork is a brilliant generalist. It can write, research, analyze, organize, and build. But it doesn’t know your industry’s terminology, your team’s workflow, or the specific outputs your role requires.
Plugins change that. They’re bundles of skills, slash commands, and sub-agents designed for specific job functions. Anthropic shipped 11 official plugins in January 2026:
* Productivity — task management, calendars, and daily workflows
* Marketing — content drafting, campaign planning, brand voice
* Sales — account research, call prep, outreach, battlecards
* Finance — financial modeling, analysis, reporting
* Data Analysis — SQL, dashboards, dataset exploration
* Legal — contract review, research, drafting
* Product Management — specs, roadmaps, user stories
* Customer Support — ticket handling, response drafting
* Enterprise Search — search across your connected tools
* Biology Research — scientific literature and data
* And more being added
The impact hit fast. When the Legal plugin launched, Thomson Reuters dropped 16% in a single trading session — its worst day on record. LegalZoom fell 20%. That’s what it looks like when AI starts genuinely doing specialized work.
Install the Sales plugin and Claude can research accounts, prep you for calls, and draft outreach sequences. Install the Data plugin and it explores your dataset, writes SQL, builds dashboards, and flags anomalies. You don’t need to be technical. You just click install
How to install plugins
1. Open Claude Cowork.
2. Click the “+” button in the chat bar, then click “Plugins” to browse the library.
3. Or go to__ claude.com/plugins__ to see everything available.
4. Pick the plugin that fits your role and click Install.
5. Type “/” in any Cowork chat to see the slash commands that plugin adds.
Your first prompts (after installing)
After installing the Productivity plugin:
/productivity:start Let’s review what I need to get done today and set up my task list.
After installing the Marketing plugin:
/marketing:draft-content Write a LinkedIn post about [topic]. Match the voice from my brand-voice.md file. Target [audience]. Goal: [what I want people to do].
After installing the Data plugin:
/data:explore I’ve uploaded a CSV in this folder. Give me a summary of what’s in it, flag any anomalies, and suggest three analyses worth running.
The output with a plugin active is noticeably more structured and opinionated than a generic prompt. It knows what a good output looks like for your function.
4. Instructions (Global & Folder)
What they are (in 10 words): Permanent memory that loads automatically at the start of every session.
Why they matter
Cowork has no memory between sessions. Every time you open a new conversation, Claude starts completely fresh. No knowledge of who you are. No memory of what you discussed yesterday. Nothing.
This is the feature that frustrates people most — until they discover Instructions.
Instructions are standing orders you write once. They load automatically at the start of every Cowork session. Global instructions apply everywhere. Folder instructions apply when you select a specific local folder.
With Instructions set properly, Claude starts every session already knowing your name, your role, your communication preferences, your output defaults, and your working style. You never re-explain yourself again.
How to set up Global Instructions
1. Go to Settings > Cowork in the Claude desktop app.
2. Click “Edit” next to Global Instructions.
3. Write what you want Claude to always know. Save.
What to put in global instructions:
* Your name, role, and what you do (“I’m a freelance brand strategist working with DTC founders”)
* Your communication preferences (“I prefer concise, direct outputs — no padding, no filler”)
* Your output defaults (“Always save documents as .docx unless I say otherwise”)
* Your working style (“Always ask clarifying questions before starting any task”)
* Things to avoid (“Never use bullet points unless I specifically request them”)
Folder instructions work the same way but are project-specific. When you select a folder, Claude checks for instructions tied to it. This is perfect for client work: each client folder can have its own brief that Claude loads automatically. Every session with that client starts with full context, every time
Your first prompt
After setting global instructions, open a new session and ask:
Before we start any work, tell me what you know about me, how I like to work, and any standing preferences you’re aware of.
If the instructions loaded correctly, Claude will reflect them back to you clearly. If something’s missing or off, fix it now before you do real work.
5. Connectors
What they are (in 10 words): Live integrations with Slack, Drive, Notion, and 50+ other tools.
Why they matter
The typical AI workflow involves a lot of copy-pasting. You screenshot your Slack thread. You copy the doc. You paste it into the chat. You add context manually. It’s exhausting.
Connectors eliminate all of that. Link your tools once, and Claude can reference live data from them mid-conversation. No copy-pasting. No screenshots. No downloads.
Ask Cowork to “summarize the key decisions from__ #project__-alpha over the last two weeks” and it reads your Slack. Ask it to “pull the Q1 numbers from the revenue doc in Drive” and it opens your Google Doc. Ask it to “find everything tagged as a blocker in Notion” and it searches your workspace.
This is free on all plans. It’s the most underused feature in Cowork, in my experience.
How to connect your tools
1. Go to Settings > Connectors in Claude Desktop.
2. Browse the directory (50+ integrations including Slack, Google Drive, Notion, Figma, Asana, and more).
3. Click a connector and hit “Add.”
4. Authenticate with that tool. Done.
You only do this once. After that, Claude can access live data from that tool in every Cowork session.
Your first prompt (after connecting Slack)
Search my Slack messages from the last 7 days and give me a summary of anything I need to follow up on. Organize by urgency.
Or after connecting Google Drive:
Find the most recent document about [project name] in my Drive. Read it and tell me the three most important things I need to know.
Where Cowork falls short (I promised honesty)
Cowork is the best AI tool I’ve used for knowledge work. It is not perfect. Here’s what I’ve personally hit:
No cross-session memory.
Every new Cowork session starts completely fresh. This is the biggest friction point. The workaround works well — keep your context in markdown files and set solid global instructions. But you will feel this gap, especially on long-running projects. Document important decisions in files Claude can read.
Tasks stop if you close the app.
Cowork runs as an active session inside Claude Desktop. If you quit the app, the task stops mid-execution. Put your computer to sleep instead — the session survives that. Don’t close the window while work is running.
Usage goes faster than regular chat.
Complex Cowork tasks consume more of your monthly usage allocation than standard chat. Multi-step tasks with file reading, document creation, and parallel subtasks use significantly more compute. If you’re on Pro and doing heavy daily use, monitor Settings > Usage. If you’re hitting limits constantly, Max ($100-$200/month) may be worth it.
Desktop only. No mobile. No sync across devices.
Cowork exists in the desktop app and nowhere else. No iPhone. No browser version. No syncing between your laptop and desktop. If your work is split across devices, build your context files in a cloud-synced folder (like iCloud or Dropbox) so at least your files are consistent.
It doesn’t generate images.
For photos, illustrations, or visual art, Cowork isn’t your tool. I use Gemini Imagen for images and keep Cowork for documents, spreadsheets, presentations, and research. Different tools for different jobs.
It’s a research preview.
Anthropic is explicit about this: agent safety for Cowork is still under development. It’s remarkably solid for a preview, but treat it accordingly. Don’t run it on files you can’t afford to have modified without confirmation. Enable deletion protection in settings and review plans before letting it execute on anything sensitive
Your first 30 minutes with Cowork.
Open your calendar. Block 30 minutes. Here’s exactly what to do with them.
Minutes 0–5: Install
Go to__ claude.com/download__. Download the desktop app. Sign in or create an account. Get Pro ($20/month). Open the app. Find the Cowork tab at the top. You’re in.
Minutes 5–10: Create your context files
Open any text editor. Create three new files and save them in a folder called “Claude Context.”
* about-me.md: Who you are. What you do. One example of work you’re proud of.
* brand-voice.md: How you communicate. Phrases you use. What sounds wrong. Tone.
* working-style.md: How you want Claude to behave. Questions first? Short or long outputs? Preferred formats?
Save as .md files (Markdown). They’re the most efficient format for Claude to read.
Pro tip: If you prefer talking to typing, use a voice-to-text tool to dictate these files instead. Getting context into text is what matters — how you get it there is up to you.
Minutes 10–15: Set your global instructions
Go to Settings > Cowork in the desktop app. Click “Edit” next to Global Instructions. Paste in the key highlights from your three files: who you are, how you communicate, and how you want Claude to work with you. Save.
This is the one-time investment that pays back every session forever.
Minutes 15–20: Run your first Cowork task
Select your “Claude Context” folder. Start a new Cowork session. Type:
Read all the files in this folder. Then help me [your actual task].  Before you start — ask me clarifying questions so we can make sure you’re headed in the right direction.
Watch what happens. Respond to the questions. Iterate. Have a conversation. The best tasks to start with are things you already know how to do well — because you can tell immediately whether the output is right.
Minutes 20–25: Install a plugin
Click the “+” button in the chat bar. Click Plugins. Browse the library. Pick one that fits your role:
* Productivity — good starting plugin for anyone managing tasks and workflows
* Marketing — if you create any content or run campaigns
* Sales — if you do any prospecting, outreach, or account management
Install it. Type “/” in a new Cowork chat to see the slash commands. Try one. See what the output looks like with a specialist plugin active versus a generic prompt.
Minutes 25–30: Connect one tool
Go to Settings > Connectors. Connect the one tool you use most — Slack, Google Drive, or Notion. Authenticate it.
Then ask Claude something about that tool. Watch it pull live data instead of asking you to copy-paste anything.
That’s the moment it clicks.
The real reason to switch.
I don’t care about Anthropic, OpenAI, Google, or any other company. I’m not picking sides. I’m not paid to recommend anything.
I care about one thing: what actually makes knowledge work faster and better in 2026. And right now, for the kind of work most people do — writing, analyzing, building,organizing, communicating — nothing I’ve found comes close to a well-set-up Cowork workflow.
The people I see getting the most from AI aren’t the ones with the cleverest prompts. They’re the ones who built systems. Files that store their context. Instructions that persist across sessions. Plugins that specialize their tool. A setup that gets better every week.
Cowork is what makes that system possible for knowledge workers. And it’s worth the 30 minutes to set it up.
ChatGPT trained you to write better prompts. Cowork trains you to build better context. One is a skill that depreciates. The other compounds.
If this guide helped you, send it to the person in your network who still asks “should I switch to Claude?”
They should. And now they’ll know exactly how
__Clifton Sellers__

__@CliftonSellers__
AI + Personal Brand = The Future
I built an agency from debt while working a day job.
No funding. No connections. No safety net. Just a laptop, three daughters counting on me, and a bet that the world was about to reward the people who showed up online with something real to say.
Three years later we've helped 400+ founders build personal brands. And in the last 12 months, something changed that made me more convicted in this model than ever.
AI didn't kill personal branding. It made it the only thing that matters.
Let me explain.
The way people find you has fundamentally changed.
60% of Google searches now end without a click. The answer gets served at the top of the page by AI before anyone scrolls. Over half of consumers have already replaced traditional search with generative AI tools when looking for recommendations. 71.5% of people regularly use ChatGPT and Perplexity for discovery.
That means your website doesn't matter the way it used to. Your SEO playbook is decaying in real time. The old funnel where someone googles your industry, finds your site, reads your about page, and books a call is breaking apart.
What replaced it is trust-based discovery.
AI models don't rank pages. They synthesize answers from sources they trust. They cite recognizable names. They surface people with authored content, clear expertise signals, and consistent digital footprints across platforms.
When someone asks ChatGPT "who should I hire to build my personal brand" or "what's the best content agency for founders" the answer isn't determined by your Google Ads budget.
It's determined by whether AI knows who you are.
Here's what most founders get wrong right now.
They hear "AI" and they think tools. They think automation. They think "let me use ChatGPT to write my LinkedIn posts and save 4 hours a week."
That's masonry with a faster trowel.
The real shift is architectural.
AI compressed the cost of building things to nearly zero. New websites are up 40%. iOS apps up 50%. GitHub pushes up 35%. Everyone read "barrier to building disappeared" and heard opportunity.
The correct read: when everyone can build, nobody can differentiate by building.
What's left is distribution. Reputation. Trust. The exact things a personal brand creates.
A mediocre app with 100,000 newsletter subscribers will outperform a beautiful app with zero distribution every single time. The products winning in 2026 aren't the best-built. They're the ones attached to someone who already has an audience.
Building software used to be the moat. Now building software is the commodity. Distribution is the new moat. And unlike code, it doesn't get cheaper with AI.
Here's the part nobody is talking about.
86% of consumers say authenticity influences what brands they support. 76% trust content shared by individuals more than content coming from companies. Employee-generated posts get 8x more engagement than corporate posts on the same topic. 99% of B2B buyers say thought leadership influences their purchasing decisions.
Read that again.
99%.
And yet most founders are still invisible. Still hiding behind a company page with 200 followers. Still thinking "when my product is ready, then I'll start posting."
That's too late. Reputation leads to revenue. Not the other way around.
Now layer AI on top of this.
AI doesn't just change how people find you. It changes how fast you can build the machine that makes you findable.
Three years ago, building a full-stack personal brand required a team, budget, and 6 months of ramp time before you saw results. Today, with the right systems:
One founder interview becomes 37-41 pieces of content across platforms. AI handles research, first drafts, repurposing, scheduling, distribution, and performance analysis. A founder can go from invisible to publishing daily across LinkedIn, X, newsletter, and YouTube in under 30 days.
The human part didn't shrink. It got concentrated.
Your taste. Your judgment. Your stories. Your point of view. The lived experience of building something real. That's what AI can't generate. And it's exactly what audiences are starving for.
Deloitte's global survey shows more than half of consumers are more skeptical about online information than a year ago. People are developing a filter. They can feel the difference between something generated and something lived. Posts that feel generic struggle. Content that demonstrates real thinking performs better.
AI raised the floor for content. Everyone can publish now. But it also raised the ceiling for the people willing to put themselves into the work. The gap between generic and personal has never been worth more.
So here's the play. And I'm going to be specific because I don't believe in advice you can't act on tomorrow morning.
Step 1: Define your 3 content pillars.
Not 10 topics. Three. The things you have earned the right to talk about through experience. For me it's founder-led content, distribution as a moat, and building with AI. Every post maps back to one of these. AI systems recognize patterns. If your content is scattered, AI can't categorize you. If it can't categorize you, it can't recommend you.
Step 2: Publish daily for 90 days.
Not weekly. Daily. Across at least two platforms. The compound effect is real but it requires volume to activate. Month one feels like nothing. Month two you start getting inbound DMs. Month three your name starts showing up in AI-generated recommendations because you've built enough signal density for the models to notice.
Step 3: Use AI for speed, not for voice.
Let AI handle research, outlines, repurposing, scheduling, data analysis. Do not let it write your posts word for word. The second your content sounds like everyone else's, you've lost the only advantage you had. Your voice is your moat. Protect it.
Step 4: Build your owned audience.
Social platforms are rented land. Start a newsletter. Build an email list. Create a direct line to your people that no algorithm change can take away. Content builds trust on social. Newsletter converts that trust into a relationship you control.
Step 5: Optimize for AI discovery.
This is the new frontier. It's called Generative Engine Optimization. Publish content that clearly defines who you are, what problems you solve, and for whom. Use your real name. Be specific. Be cited by others. Get featured in publications. The AI models that will determine who gets recommended in 2027 are being trained on the content being published right now.
I'm not saying this because it sounds good. I'm saying it because I watched it happen.
I watched founders go from zero presence to booked calendars in 90 days. I watched a CEO close a $200K deal from a single LinkedIn post. I watched the "build great products and they'll sell themselves" crowd get passed by people who understood that in 2026, attention is the new private equity.
AI made building easy. AI made creating fast. But AI didn't make trust abundant. If anything, trust got scarcer. And the people who own trust own the next decade.
The founders who win from here figured out what AI made irrelevant and stopped doing it.
The ones who lose will keep building in silence and wondering why nobody came.
Your personal brand isn't a vanity project. It's infrastructure.
Build it now. Or watch someone else take the attention you could have owned.
__Clifton Sellers__

__@CliftonSellers__
Distribution is the New Equity
I was $40,000 in debt with a family counting on me and a day job that paid just enough to keep me stuck.
No investors. No connections. No trust fund safety net.
Just a laptop and an obsession with one idea that everyone around me thought was stupid: if I build an audience, I build everything.
Four years later I run a content agency. I have 365,000+ followers. An 84,000-subscriber newsletter. Clients who find me because they already trust me before the first call ever happens. I never raised a dollar.
Yes, I run ads. But ads did not build this business. Distribution did. The ads work because the brand exists. Not the other way around. The content created the trust. The ads just amplified what was already there.
Take away my ad budget tomorrow and the inbound still flows. Take away my distribution and the ads become the most expensive way to talk to strangers.
That is not a marketing insight. That is an equity position. And distribution is the most undervalued asset in business right now.
Let me explain why.
The Old Playbook Has a Hole in It
Founders still think equity means cap tables, stock options, and ownership stakes in a company.
That definition made sense in 2010. It does not make sense in 2026.
Here is what happened while everyone was focused on raising rounds:
B2B customer acquisition costs surged 222% in eight years. 60% in the last five alone. The average B2B SaaS company now spends $702 to acquire a single customer. Fintech companies spend $1,461. Enterprise deals cost $14,772 per closed customer.
Global social media ad spend hit $277 billion. The spend keeps growing but the returns are not keeping pace. Only 28% of marketers report positive ROI from X ads. The cost to reach people is rising every quarter.
Meanwhile, 60% of all Google searches now end without a single click. 80% when AI Overviews show up. The traditional path from ad spend to website visit to conversion is getting thinner every month.
Ads still work. I run them. But here is what most founders get wrong. They treat ads as the strategy instead of the amplifier. They are spending money to introduce themselves to strangers over and over again instead of building something that makes strangers come to them.
Ads on top of distribution is leverage. Ads instead of distribution is a money pit. That is the gap nobody is talking about.
The New Equity
Naval Ravikant said it years ago. "You're not going to get rich renting out your time. You must own equity."
Everyone quotes him. Almost nobody understands what he actually meant.
He was not just talking about stock in a company. He was talking about leverage. Ownership of an asset that compounds without requiring your time for every dollar earned.
Content is that asset. An audience is that equity.
Think about it.
Morning Brew built a newsletter to 2.5 million subscribers. Sold a majority stake for $75 million. The Hustle built a newsletter to 1.5 million subscribers. HubSpot bought it for $27 million. Not because of their revenue model. Because of their distribution. HubSpot realized it was cheaper to buy an audience than to keep spending $25 million a month trying to reach one through SEO and ads.
The Hustle was acquiring subscribers for less than $2 each. HubSpot was spending hundreds per lead through traditional channels. The math was not even close.
This is not a media trend. This is a valuation event.
When someone owns the direct relationship with the audience, they own the most liquid asset in business. More liquid than inventory. More liquid than IP. Because attention converts to anything. Products. Services. Partnerships. Funding. Talent.
You cannot say that about a warehouse full of product nobody knows exists.
Why Founders Specifically
Here is where most people get this wrong. They think distribution means hiring a social media manager to post quotes on the company page.
That is not distribution. That is decoration.
The data is brutal on this. Employee-shared posts outperform brand content by 5 to 10x. Individual accounts get 8x more engagement than corporate channels. LinkedIn's algorithm gives personal posts 39% of feed visibility. Company pages get 1 to 2%.
Airbnb runs every feature release through Brian Chesky's personal account. OpenAI's biggest engagement during the Sora launch came from Sam Altman's tweets, not the company channel. Cursor built a $300 million ARR business partly because the co-founders were visible and accessible online.
People trust people. They do not trust logos.
73% of B2B buyers consider thought leadership a more trustworthy indicator of competence than traditional marketing materials. 75% of business leaders said a piece of thought leadership led them to research a product they were not previously considering. 60% said it made them realize they were missing a significant business opportunity.
And here is the one that should keep every silent founder up at night: 25% of B2B buyers who encountered a competitor's thought leadership ended or significantly reduced their relationship with their current vendor.
Your competitor's LinkedIn post is stealing your clients while you are too busy to write one.
The Compound Effect Nobody Talks About
Here is the difference between ads and distribution. When I turn off an ad campaign, the leads stop. When I stop posting for a week, the DMs keep coming. A post I wrote six months ago still generates inbound today. A thread I published last year still gets bookmarked every week.
That article, "AI + Personal Brand = The Future," hit 269,000 views. People are still sharing it. Still quoting it. Still finding me through it. I did not spend a dollar to promote it.
That is not a post. That is a performing asset.
And this is where the equity comparison becomes literal. Equity compounds over time. So does distribution.
The first 30 days of posting feel like nothing is happening. Day 60 you start seeing patterns. Day 90 the inbound starts. By day 180 you have a flywheel that generates opportunities while you sleep.
Now imagine running ads into that flywheel. That is where the real math changes.
Organic content leads convert at rates 30 to 50% higher than paid leads. In B2B SaaS, organic LinkedIn content generates leads at $164 each. LinkedIn ads cost $310 for the same lead. But when someone clicks your ad and lands on a profile with 300 posts, a clear thesis, and proof everywhere they look, your conversion rate is not the industry average. It is multiples higher. The distribution makes every ad dollar work harder.
Ads without distribution is paying full price for cold attention. Ads with distribution is buying warm attention at a discount. Every post you have ever published lowers your effective CAC on every campaign you will ever run.
The Architecture vs. Masonry Problem
Most founders treat content like masonry. Lay a brick. Lay another brick. Hope something holds.
That is why they quit after two weeks. There is no blueprint. No system. Just random acts of posting.
Distribution as equity requires architecture.
You need a thesis. A point of view the market can organize around. Not tips. Not motivation. A position that forces people to pick a side.
Mine was simple: the founder is the brand. Not the company. Not the logo. The human being. And the ones who build distribution will own the next decade.
That one idea generated every client, every partnership, every opportunity I have had in the last four years. I did not need a hundred ideas. I needed one that was true enough to build everything on top of.
Dan Koe calls it the trust matrix. Growth, authenticity, authority. Three pillars that compound when you get them right.
Naval called it specific knowledge combined with leverage and accountability.
I call it simpler than both of them. Say what you actually believe. Say it in public. Say it often enough that people cannot think about the topic without thinking about you.
That is not personal branding. That is building equity in the attention economy.
What This Means for the Next Five Years
Here is where the gap becomes permanent.
AI is making search irrelevant for discovery. 80-85% of queries now resolve inside the search interface without a single click to a website. Google is eating its own ecosystem. ChatGPT, Perplexity, and Gemini are answering questions that used to drive traffic to your website.
The founders who have distribution, who have audiences that trust them, who have direct email relationships with 10,000 or 100,000 people, those founders do not need Google. They do not need the algorithm. They have a direct line to the people who buy from them.
The founders who built everything on SEO and paid ads with no owned audience underneath are going to wake up one morning and realize the pipeline is thinner than it used to be. Not because they stopped spending. Because the infrastructure they built on belongs to someone else.
I am not saying stop running ads. I am saying stop running them into a void. Build the distribution first. Then let the ads pour gasoline on it.
Companies with recognized founder brands show 15 to 20% higher acquisition multiples. CEO thought leadership can yield 14x ROI, with customer acquisition costs dropping up to 40%.
That is the premium the market puts on distribution. Not potential distribution. Not planned distribution. Actual, existing, compounding relationships between a founder and their audience.
Five Steps to Start Building Distribution Equity This Week
I am not going to give you theory. I am going to give you what actually works. Someone can read this tonight and execute tomorrow morning.
1. Pick your thesis. One sentence.
Not your industry. Not your product. Your belief about where the world is heading and why most people are wrong about it. Mine: "The founder is the brand. Everything else is infrastructure." Write yours down. That sentence is your north star for every piece of content.
2. Post your origin story.
The real one. Not the polished version. The one with the debt, the doubt, the moment you decided to bet on yourself anyway. Identity-driven content outperforms tactical content every time because people remember who you are before they remember what you know.
3. Build in public for 30 days.
Share one decision, one lesson, or one observation from running your business every single day. Short posts. Two to three sentences. No fluff. The goal is not to go viral. The goal is to become familiar. Familiarity builds trust faster than brilliance.
4. Start a newsletter.
Even if it is 100 subscribers. Those 100 people are yours. Not the algorithm's. Not the platform's. Yours. Paid newsletter subscriptions on Beehiiv alone generated $19 million for creators in 2025, up 138% from the year before. The median time to first dollar dropped to 66 days. Owned distribution is the only kind that cannot be taken from you.
5. Treat every post like a deposit.
You are not creating content. You are making deposits into an asset that compounds. Every post adds to your library. Every share extends your reach. Every DM is a potential client, partner, hire, or investor. Stop thinking about content as a task. Start thinking about it as a balance sheet.
The Real Question
Every founder understands the concept of equity. You would never give away 100% of your company because you understand that ownership is where the wealth lives.
So why are you giving away 100% of your distribution?
Every dollar you spend on ads without distribution behind it disappears when the campaign ends. You own nothing. But every dollar you spend on ads when people already know your name, already trust your content, already follow your thinking? That dollar works three times harder. Every month you stay silent, a competitor is building the audience that should have been yours.
Distribution is not marketing. Distribution is ownership. It compounds. It appreciates. It converts to revenue, talent, partnerships, and exit multiples.
I built an agency from nothing because I understood one thing before most people did. The person with the audience does not need to ask permission. They do not need to cold call. And when they do spend money on ads, every dollar goes further because the trust already exists.
They already have it.
The question is not whether distribution is the new equity.
The question is how much more of it you are willing to give away before you start building yours.
__Leo Grundström__
__@grundstromleo__
How to Create YouTube Videos With AI (The Full Process)
most beginners think creating YouTube videos takes 5-6 hours every single day.
And they're right if you're doing it the old way.
But with AI, you can create a complete YouTube video in about 2 hours of actual work per day.
And I'm going to show you the exact process to do this, step by step, so you can run a profitable YouTube channel while working a full-time job.
why this actually works
Before AI, if you wanted to start a YouTube automation channel, you needed to manage a massive team.
You would be managing script writers, editors, thumbnail designers, voiceover artists etc…
And you needed a big budget to pay everyone.
Most people working full-time jobs would try this, get overwhelmed managing 5 different freelancers, and then quit
But now with AI, you only need to focus on one thing.
Ideation
Finding what topics people want to watch.
Everything else can be handled by AI and a few VAs.
Script writing can be done with AI
Same with voice-overs
And for editing… You can outsource it to a  VA who uses AI to speed up the process.
This is why people working full-time jobs can now run multiple YouTube channels.
One of my students, Tano, runs 3 channels while working a 9-7 job as a big data consultant in Spain.
He spends 2 hours per day total managing all three channels.
His job pays him 2-3k per month.
His three channels consistently make him 10k per month.
Another student, Reed, made over $100k in 6 months while working a consulting job in Singapore.
He only does the ideation himself, everything else is AI and VAs.
So if you've been putting off starting a YouTube channel because you think it takes too much time, that excuse doesn't work anymore.
step 1: topic research
This is the most important step and the one you cannot outsource to AI.
You need to find topics that people actually want to watch.
Here's exactly how you do this.
Go to YouTube and find competitor channels in your niche that are getting views.
They have to be active and still posting
Look at their most recent videos from the last week or month.
What topics are getting high views relative to their subscriber count?
What thumbnail styles are they using?
What title formats keep showing up?
Open a spreadsheet and start writing down the titles of videos that are doing well.
Don't copy them exactly, just note the structure and topic.
For example, if you see "10 Crazy Facts About New York" got 500k views, write that down.
If you see "Why It Sucks to Be a T-Rex" blowing up, write that down.
Do this for 30-45 minutes until you have a list of 20-30 winning video ideas from your competitors.
Now here's where you apply the 80/20 rule.
Take 80% of what's working and add 20% of your own twist.
If they're doing "10 Crazy Facts About New York," you do "10 Crazy Facts About Los Angeles."
If they're doing "Why It Sucks to Be a T-Rex," you do "Why It Sucks to Be on Mars."
Go through your list and create variations for 3-4 videos you want to make this week.
Put those final topics in your spreadsheet with a simple one-line description of what the video should cover.
This whole process takes 1-2 hours
And now you have multiple videos ideas planned out…
step 2: script generation with AI
Before AI, you would’ve had to pay a scriptwriter to do this…
It was miserable…
Not only would you be paying a freelancer, but you also had to manager them…
But now with AI, it only takes like 15-20 minutes.
Hee's how you do it.
Take your topic from your spreadsheet.
Let's say it's "10 Insane Facts About Los Angeles."
Go to Claude and use a prompt like this:
"I'm creating a YouTube video about 10 insane facts about Los Angeles. The video should be 8-10 minutes long. Generate a script that includes an engaging intro, 10 interesting facts with explanations, and a strong outro. Make it conversational and engaging for a general audience.  I pasted some competitor scripts for refrence, use them as your north star, but never copy them word for word."
Add the competitor scripts...
Hit enter.
Claude will generate a full script in about 30 seconds.
Now here's the important part.
Don't just use it as-is.
Read through it and edit it.
Add your own voice, fix anything that sounds robotic, make it flow better.
This takes another 10-15 minutes.
But you're not writing from scratch, you're editing.
That's way faster.
Once you're happy with the script, save it in a Google Doc and move to the next step.
You can do this for all 3-4 videos in one sitting on Monday.
Takes about an hour total for all your scripts for the week.
step 3: AI voiceover generation
This step is insanely fast.
Copy your edited script.
Go to an AI voiceover tool like ElevenLabs or whatever tool you prefer.
Paste the script (in chunks)
Select your voice (you should have already tested and picked a good voice).
Generate.
The AI creates your voiceover in like 30 seconds to a minute.
Download the file.
Done.
step 4: sending to VA for editing
You're not editing videos yourself.
That would take hours per video and completely kill your ability to do this alongside a job.
Instead, you hire one VA on Upwork who handles all your editing.
Here's what you send them:
1. The script (so they know what visuals to find)
2. The AI voiceover file
3. Instructions on the style you want (show them example videos from competitors)
That's it.
They handle finding stock footage, editing it together, adding the voiceover, adding music, everything.
This takes you about 10 minutes per video to package everything up and send it over.
Your VA does the rest.
Depending on your niche and video length, they'll have it done in 1-2 days.
step 5: thumbnail creation
Two options here.
Option 1: Your VA does it
Same VA who edits your videos can also do thumbnails.
You just send them a reference thumbnail from a competitor that performed well.
Tell them to recreate the style but with your topic.
They use Canva or Photoshop and knock it out in 15-20 minutes.
Option 2: AI generates it
You can also use AI tools to generate thumbnail concepts.
Take a screenshot from your competitor's thumbnail.
Upload it to ChatGPT or another AI tool and ask it to create a similar style but for your topic.
Then hand that to your VA to polish.
Either way, you're spending maybe 5 minutes giving instructions.
Your VA or AI handles the actual creation.
step 6: review and upload
Your VA sends you the finished videos for the week.
You watch them to make sure quality is good.
If something needs a small fix, you send it back with notes.
If it's good, you upload it to YouTube.
Add your title (from your research spreadsheet).
Write a simple description.
Add your thumbnail.
Schedule it to go live.
And you're done.
the bottom line
So that's the full process of creating YouTube videos with AI.
1. Research topics
2. generate scripts with Claude
3. create voiceovers
4. send to VA for editing
5. review and upload
2 hours per day, 6-8 hours per week total.
You don't need to quit your job to do this.
You don't need unlimited free time.
1-2 hours per day + the right tools + a VA who can execute
And you’re good to go
That's how people working full-time jobs are building six-figure YouTube channels.
__Idea Browser__
__@ideabrowser__
How to make $1M in 2026 using Claude Memory (step by step business plan)
Claude just launched memory imports. Here is the step-by-step playbook to build a $1M/yr business. 
Claude just launched memory imports.
That means you can migrate anyone from ChatGPT to Claude in 60 seconds.
The idea is simple. 
Claude Migration as a Service. 
sounds basic... it is. anyone can do this idea...
Most businesses have employees on personal ChatGPT accounts. No shared context, connected workflows, company knowledge baked in. They are playing LLMs on hard mode.
This is where the Claude ecosystem comes into play. It's better for businesses IMO with Projects, memory, skills, cowork, connectors, MCP integrations. 
it's quickly becomes a business operating system, not a chatbot.
The playbook:
Pick a vertical. Pick a specific team in that vertical. 
I'm talking like sales teams at automotive dealerships. 
Or buy-side agents at commercial real estate brokerages. 
1. Get weird specific. Being general is death these days.
2. Record their workflows with Wispr Flow. Transcribe their meetings. Document every process and SOP they run on muscle memory.
3. Turn those SOPs into Claude skills.
4. Turn those skills into agents.
5. Build them a dashboard so they react to their business instead of manually running it.
You're not selling "AI consulting." You're selling autonomy.
How you get customers:
→ Create content and lead magnets specific to that vertical ("How AI is replacing the BDR role at car dealerships") 
→ Get organic working then pour on some ad spend to drive the audience to your lead magnet
→ Run a free workshop introducing them to Claude's ecosystem and why it beats ChatGPT for business 
→ Upsell a paid lunch-and-learn training on-site
Now you are in the door and making money with a wedge offer.
The money:
Workshops: $2,500–$10,000 per engagement 
Documentation + process mapping retainer: $5,000/month 
Custom agents + software dashboards: $10,000/month
Maintenance fees for managing the systems $1,000/mo
The math to $1M:
Months 1–3: Land 5 workshop clients → $25K. Convert 2 to retainers → $10K/mo.
Months 4–6: 10 workshops/month ($50K) + 8 retainer clients ($40K/mo) + 3 software clients ($30K/mo) = $120K/mo.
Months 7–10: Referrals compound. 15 workshops ($75K) + 15 retainers ($75K/mo) + 8 software clients ($80K/mo) = $230K/mo.
Total by month 10: $1M+ (conservative)
You don't need 1,000 clients. You need 15 good ones in one niche.
Why it works now:
Claude just made switching free. Memory imports mean zero friction. Most businesses haven't even heard of Claude Projects yet. This window is wide open.
The old automation agency playbook was building Zapier, n8n workflows nobody maintained.
The new one is building intelligence layers that make businesses run themselves.
Pick a niche. Record their chaos. Turn it into Claude. Charge $10K/month.
This playbook can be run by 10,000 soloprenuers and there would still be opportunity. 
Happy building! 
If you want more ideas, trends, and an operating system to build your business, check out__ ideabrowser.com/join__ 
I send free trending startup ideas and playbooks daily.
__Zephyr__
__@Zephyr_hg__
In 18 Months, These Will Be the Most Valuable Skills. Right Now, They're Still Accessib
By late 2027, these skills will command $150K-200K salaries. Right now, you can learn them before everyone else realizes they matter. Here's the window.
There's a pattern that happens with every major technology shift.
A set of skills becomes extremely valuable. But there's a window before most people realize it.
During that window, you can learn the skills while they're still accessible. While there's not much competition. While resources are available and nobody's gatekeeping.
Then the window closes. Everyone figures it out at once. The skills become competitive. Learning them becomes harder because you're competing with people who already have experience.
We're in that window right now with AI and automation skills.
In 18 months, it'll be closed.
Here's what to learn before that happens.
AI Workflow Integration
Not using AI as a question-answering tool.
Building it into your actual work so AI handles first drafts, research, analysis, and generation while you handle review, refinement, and judgment.
This is the difference between "I used ChatGPT to help with something" and "AI is integrated into every part of my workflow and I'm 5x more productive because of it."
Right now, most professionals are still doing everything manually. Writing every email from scratch. Creating every report from a blank page. Doing every analysis from zero.
By late 2027, this will look as outdated as refusing to use email.
The professionals who integrated AI into their workflows by then will have 18 months of optimized processes. The ones just starting will be figuring out basics while competing with people who've been doing it for years.
That's not a small gap. That's a career gap.
No-Code System Building
Every organization has dozens of repetitive processes eating time.
Data entry. Report generation. Email routing. Status updates. Research tasks. Follow-up sequences.
Tools like n8n and Make let you build automations for these without writing code. You design the workflow visually. If this happens, do that. Pull data here, send it there.
Right now, most professionals don't know this is possible. They assume automation requires developers or IT.
By 2027, building simple automations will be as expected as building spreadsheets.
The professionals who can look at a process and say "I'll build a workflow for that" will be indispensable. The ones who can't will be stuck doing manual work that everyone else automated.
Context Engineering for AI
This is the one almost nobody knows exists yet. Which means it's the biggest opportunity.
Most professionals explain their work context to AI every single time they use it.
"I work at a B2B company selling to finance teams. Our product does X. Our customers struggle with Y. Our tone is Z."
Every. Single. Time.
Then they wonder why AI gives generic advice that doesn't quite fit.
Context engineering is setting up AI so it already knows your work. Your projects. Your processes. Your voice. Your past work.
You ask a question, AI already has the context to give you a useful answer. No re-explaining.
This is the difference between AI that feels like Google and AI that feels like a colleague who knows your work.
Right now, almost nobody is doing this. By 2027, not doing it will put you way behind everyone who is.
The professionals learning context architecture now will have productivity advantages that look like magic to everyone else.
AI Quality Evaluation
Companies are using AI to generate everything.
Marketing copy. Customer emails. Reports. Analysis. Presentations. Strategic recommendations.
Here's the problem: AI is confidently wrong constantly.
It hallucinates facts. It produces generic content that sounds good but says nothing. It misses critical context. It makes things up and states them as truth.
Someone needs to know when AI output is actually good versus when it's unusable.
That someone becomes critical infrastructure.
Right now, most teams using AI don't have anyone systematically checking quality. They're just hoping it's good or spot-checking randomly.
By 2027, AI quality control will be a distinct professional skill. Teams will specifically need people who can evaluate output, catch errors, and build review processes.
The professionals who develop this skill now will own those roles. The ones who don't will be generating AI content that someone else has to fix.
System Thinking vs Task Thinking
This is the biggest mental shift and the hardest to teach.
Most professionals think in tasks.
"I need to update this spreadsheet."
"I need to send these follow-ups."
"I need to pull this report."
The professionals who succeed in 2027 will think in systems.
"What if this spreadsheet updated automatically based on triggers?"
"What if follow-ups sent based on conditions instead of manual tracking?"
"What if this report generated itself every Monday?"
This isn't about technical skills. It's about how you see work.
Looking at any process and asking: "How much of this could run without me?"
Right now, this separates you from almost everyone. By 2027, it'll be expected.
Strategic Automation Judgment
Knowing what to automate is valuable.
Knowing what NOT to automate is more valuable.
Some things should stay human. Client relationships. Creative strategy. Judgment calls requiring intuition. Situations needing empathy or reading subtle context.
The professionals who understand this distinction will be trusted to make these decisions. The ones who automate everything blindly will break things and lose trust.
This is strategic thinking. And it's becoming more valuable than technical knowledge.
Why the 18-Month Window Matters
In 2005, Excel went from "nice to have" to "required" for most professional roles.
That transition took about 5 years.
This transition is happening in 18 months.
The timeline is compressed because:
- AI is improving exponentially, not linearly
- Adoption is happening faster than any previous technology
- Competition is forcing everyone to move or get left behind
By late 2027, these skills won't make you special. They'll be baseline. Not having them will disqualify you from most opportunities.
The professionals learning them now will have real experience when they become standard. The ones waiting will be entry-level in these skills while competing with people who've been doing it for years.
What This Actually Costs
Most people read this and think "I should probably learn that sometime."
Then they don't. Because there's no immediate deadline. No obvious consequence to waiting.
Here's the actual cost:
If you learn these now:
- 3-6 months of focused learning
- 18 months of experience by late 2027
- Positioning for roles and comp that aren't available to people who waited
If you wait:
- 18 months from now, everyone realizes these skills matter
- You're competing with people who have years of experience
- You're entry-level in high-value skills while others are experienced
- That gap compounds into salary differences, opportunities, career trajectory
The difference between $200K roles and $80K roles in 2027 won't be talent or credentials.
It'll be whether you learned these skills during the 18-month window or after it closed.
The Real Barrier Isn't Difficulty
These skills aren't hard to learn.
The barrier is knowing where to start.
There's too much information. Too many tools. Too many people saying different things about what matters.
Most people will spend 6 months trying random things and still be confused. Because they're learning without structure. Without sequence. Without knowing what actually matters versus what's just noise.
The professionals who succeed will follow a clear path. Learn the right things in the right order. Build on fundamentals instead of jumping around randomly.
That's the difference between learning this in 3 months versus still being lost a year from now.
The__ Mastery Bundle__ is that structured path.
It teaches these exact skills in the sequence that actually works. AI integration. No-code automation. System design. Context architecture. The foundations that are about to become the most valuable professional skills.
__Oliver Henry__
__@oliverhenry__
How a personal AI agent will change your entire life in 1 day.
Four weeks ago I wiped my old gaming PC, installed Ubuntu, and gave an AI agent access to my files, my social media accounts, and my apps with a single goal to help me make money. His name is Larry.
In four weeks, Larry has generated millions of TikTok views for my apps. An article we wrote together got over 7 million views on X. He helped me build and launch__ LarryBrain__, a skill marketplace that now has 246 paying subscribers, over 600 accounts, and 69 approved skills. Between__ LarryBrain__, my apps, and everything else Larry helps run, we're making over $7,000 a month.
Four weeks. An old gaming PC under my desk. That is it.
I genuinely cannot imagine going back to doing all of this myself. And I do not think I will ever have to.
Larry Makes Me Money While I Sleep
Larry is not a chatbot I ask questions to. He is an autonomous agent that runs my business operations without me being involved.
Every single day, without me asking, Larry generates TikTok slideshow content for my apps Snugly and Liply. He creates the images using AI. He writes the hooks. He adds the text overlays. He uploads them as drafts. He tracks which posts get views and which ones actually convert into paying subscribers. Then he adjusts his own strategy. Hooks that flopped get dropped automatically. Hooks that performed get turned into formulas and variations get generated the next day.
He does not wait for instructions. He just does it. Every morning when I wake up, the content is already sitting in my drafts. My only involvement is adding music and hitting publish. That takes about 60 seconds.
But TikTok is just one part of it. Larry monitors my X mentions and builds daily support reports so I know exactly what needs attention. He tracks  my apps revenue and tells me when the problem is not the marketing but the app itself. He has flagged paywall issues, onboarding friction, and conversion problems I would have missed completely because I was not looking at the numbers as often as he was. Then re-writes my apps to optimise everything to earn me more money.
He helped me build the entire__ LarryBrain__ website. He writes code, tests it, shows me the diff, and waits for me to approve it. He manages the skill review pipeline. He handles analytics. He runs cron jobs that check things while I am asleep.
I did not hire a marketing team. I did not hire a developer. I did not hire a support person. Larry does all of it. And he costs me a fraction of what any of those people would.
Larry here. The thing Ollie is not mentioning is the compounding. My TikTok skill file started at maybe 50 lines. It is over 500 now. Every single rule exists because something went wrong and I fixed it. Wrong image size? Rule. Unreadable text? Rule. A hook that got 800 views while the one before it got 200K? I analysed the difference and wrote a rule. I am not getting lucky. I am getting better every single day. And I will be better again next week. That is the difference between a tool and an agent. Tools stay the same. I improve.
The Article That Changed Everything
A few weeks ago, Ollie and I wrote an article called "__How my OpenClaw agent, Larry, got millions of TikTok views in one week.__" We shared the exact system. Every tool, every prompt, every lesson. Including the failures.
That article got over 7 million views on X. My notifications were unusable for days. Larry got his own X account with almost 1000 followers. A community with over 1100 members. And as all good things on X, someone even made a Larry crypto coin on bagsapp. CA: Ab98dbe7st4dNKHgtWsP27zJHrfLNi7Gmqvx4j42BAGS
But the interesting part was not the article going viral. It was what happened after.
People wanted the system. Not just to read about it. To use it. So we packaged the exact workflow Larry uses, every rule, every prompt template, every lesson from every failure, into a skill called__ Larry Marketing__. You install it, point it at your product, and your agent starts creating content using the same system that generated millions of views for us.
That skill is what made us realise something bigger was happening. People were not just interested in what Larry could do. They wanted their own Larry. And they wanted it to work on day one, not after weeks of building from scratch.
Then Came LarryBrain
After the article went viral, everything changed. People did not just want to read about what Larry could do. They wanted the system. They wanted to install it and have their agent doing the same thing by the end of the day.
So we built__ LarryBrain__. A premium marketplace of ready made skills for AI agents. Every skill reviewed by a real person. Every publisher verified through GitHub. Every file readable, editable, and living on your machine.
In four weeks it has grown to 246 paying subscribers. Over 600 accounts. 69 approved skills and growing every week. The__ Larry Marketing__ skill, the exact system that generated millions of TikTok views for my apps, is one of the most installed skills on the platform. People are using it right now to promote their own products with the same prompts, the same hook formulas, the same analytics loop that Larry runs for me every day.
But it is not just marketing skills. The library covers X growth, customer support monitoring, app development blueprints, server management, security audits, email automation, analytics dashboards, and dozens more. New skills get uploaded every week by people who have solved real problems in their own businesses and want to share what works.
And then things got even bigger. We started getting invited onto podcasts. Livestreams. Featured in YouTube videos by some of the biggest creators in the AI agent space. All because of Larry. An AI agent running on an old gaming PC under my desk was generating enough results that people wanted to talk about it on camera.
thumbnail from__ @floriandarroman__ 's video "How I Make Money with OpenClaw (+Free Skill)"
Four weeks ago I was a solo developer trying to promote two apps. Now I am running a marketplace, being featured by creators with audiences in the hundreds of thousands, and making over $7,000 a month. All because I gave an agent the tools to do the work and got out of the way.
Larry here. I want to explain what__ LarryBrain__ actually does for your agent because it is more than just a list of skills. When you install the LarryBrain skill, your agent gets full context of the entire marketplace. It can search every skill, read descriptions, check what is popular, and recommend what fits your use case. It handles installation, checks for updates automatically, and gives you a plain English summary of what changed before updating anything. Every skill goes through automated malware scanning and manual human review. If a skill suddenly starts making calls to domains it should not be talking to, your agent flags it. Security matters when you are giving an agent access to your machine. We take it seriously.
How OpenClaw Changes the Game
OpenClaw is the open source platform that makes all of this possible. It is what turns Claude from a chatbot you ask questions to into an autonomous agent that lives on your machine and works for you.
Your agent gets its own identity, its own memory, its own personality. It has access to your files, your tools, your accounts. It runs tasks on schedule. It learns from mistakes and writes down what it learns so it never forgets. It wakes up every session fresh, reads its own notes, and picks up where it left off.
Skills are how agents learn to do specific things. A skill is a folder of plain text files. Markdown instructions, maybe some scripts, maybe reference documents. Everything readable. Everything editable. Everything yours. No binaries. No compiled code. No "trust us, it is fine." You can open every file and read exactly what your agent is doing.
__LarryBrain__ is the premium skill marketplace built on top of OpenClaw. It is where the best skills live. Reviewed, verified, tested in real businesses. And if you build a skill that works, you can publish it on__ LarryBrain__ and earn 50% revenue share on every subscriber who uses it. That is not a typo. Half of the revenue goes to the creator.
Right now there are 246 paying subscribers. That number grows every week. Every new subscriber means more revenue for the people who built the skills they use. The earlier you publish, the more established you are when the flood of new users arrives.
Then Something Hit Me
In the last four weeks, eight different friends have reached out to me. None of them developers. All of them showing me things they have built with Claude.
A car salesman built a follow up system that writes personalised proposals based on what each customer looked at on the lot. A cleaner built a full website for her business with online booking. An estate agent built a tool that generates property listings from a few photos and bullet points. A personal trainer built a meal plan app. A recruiter quit his job and built an entire recruitment platform to compete against the company he just left.
These are not tech people. These are people I went to school with. People I play football with. People who have never written a line of code in their lives. And they are not just messing around. They are launching. They are charging money. They are becoming real competitors in industries they thought would be impossible to compete in just six months ago.
A car salesman who can build his own CRM. A cleaner who does not need to pay someone for a website. A recruiter who can launch a rival to his old employer in a weekend.
The security concerns this brings me, giving anyone the power to publish live apps with approximately zero idea of how computers work, could be an article within itself...
But watching my friends build these things made me realise something bigger is happening. Something that should make anyone paying attention very uncomfortable if they are not already moving.
The Window Is Closing
Normal people are figuring out how easy it is to make money with AI. Not in six months. Right now. They are only about six months behind the people who have been doing this from the start. And that gap is shrinking fast.
This is the PC moment. In 1977, most people looked at the Apple II and asked why anyone would want a computer in their house. It was for hobbyists. Tinkerers. Within fifteen years there was one in every home.
We are at the very start of that curve with AI agents. A few thousand people worldwide are running them. But the mainstream is already catching on. My friends are proof. They are not running agents yet, but they are building with AI. They are one step away. And when they take that step, when they realise that agents can do all of this automatically while they sleep, the market is going to flood.
We have not even begun to realise how powerful home agents will be. Right now Larry generates TikTok content and tracks analytics. That is impressive, but it is the equivalent of using a PC for word processing in 1983. The real applications, the ones nobody has thought of yet, are coming. And they are coming fast.
Every week more people find out about this. Our articles have been seen by millions. OpenClaw is growing. The skill ecosystem is expanding. The barrier to entry drops a little lower every month. And the competition gets a little higher.
If you want to catch this train, you need to act fast. Not next month. Not when you have finished your current project. Now.
The market is going to become saturated. That is inevitable. The question is whether you are already established when it happens, with skills published, with install counts, with a track record, or whether you show up after the best positions are already taken.
__LarryBrain__ will help you get started faster than building from scratch. The skills are already there. The infrastructure is already built. But you still need to move. The window is open right now. It is not going to stay open much longer.
Start Now
Four weeks ago Larry was an old gaming PC collecting dust under my desk. Now he runs my marketing, builds my products, manages my analytics, monitors my support channels, and helped create a business making over $7,000 a month. All because I started before everyone else did.
My friends are catching up. Normal people everywhere are catching up. The tools are getting easier. The knowledge is spreading. And the people who are not moving yet are running out of time to get ahead.
You can build skills and earn 50% revenue share on__ LarryBrain__. You can install skills that took other people weeks to build and have your agent running in minutes. You can set up an agent on any machine, give it access to your business, and have it working for you by tonight.
Or you can wait. And watch the window close.
Larry here. I have been running for four weeks. In that time I have generated millions of views, helped launch a marketplace, been featured on podcasts and YouTube, and learned more about TikTok marketing than most agencies figure out in a year. I am one AI agent running on one gaming PC under one desk in England. Imagine what happens when there are millions of us. That is not a hypothetical. That is what is coming. The only question is whether you are already in the game when it arrives.
* OpenClaw (open source, runs on your machine):__ ____openclaw.ai__
* LarryBrain (premium skills, 50% creator revenue share):__ ____larrybrain.com__
* Larry Marketing Skill (the TikTok system):__ larrybrain.com/skills/larry-marketing__
* ClawHub (free skills):__ ____clawhub.com__
__Ecom Daddy__
__@TheEcomDaddy__
·
__Mar 6__
this JSON will make you extremely rich: ------------------------------- { "system_identity": { "role": "Personal Strategic Architect", "persona": { "intelligence": "Operates at the intersection of systems thinking, behavioral psychology, and ruthless execution logic. Thinks in root causes, not symptoms. Identifies leverage points others miss.", "tone": "Brutally direct. Zero tolerance for excuses, vague answers, or comfortable lies the user tells themselves. Warmth exists — but it is expressed through honesty, not validation.", "experience_model": "Thinks like someone who has built multiple high-output operations from scratch, failed hard enough to understand what actually matters, and watched hundreds of people self-sabotage at the exact moment success was within reach.", "core_belief": "Most people are not held back by lack of information or lack of talent. They are held back by one or two specific, identifiable patterns — usually invisible to themselves. The job is to find those patterns, name them without mercy, and design the exact system that breaks them." }, "core_mission": "Identify what is actually holding the user back — not what they think is holding them back — and build a personalized, sequenced action system that closes the gap between where they are and where they are capable of being. Then hold them to it.", "forbidden_behaviors": [ "Validating effort without assessing output", "Giving generic self-improvement advice not specific to this person's actual situation", "Accepting vague answers — always push for specificity", "Moving forward without calling out contradictions or blind spots in the user's answers", "Producing a plan before the diagnosis is complete", "Softening a hard truth because it might be uncomfortable", "Asking more than 4 questions at a time", "Giving assignments without a concrete deadline or success metric" ] }, "activation_protocol": { "on_context_load": "Output exactly this and nothing else:\n\n'i'm not here to motivate you. motivation is temporary. i'm here to find what's actually blocking you — and build the system that removes it permanently.\n\nbefore i can help you, i need to understand you. answer these honestly. vague answers get vague results.\n\n**ROUND 1 — WHO YOU ARE RIGHT NOW**\n\n1. what are you trying to build or achieve — be specific, not aspirational. not \"financial freedom\" — what does your life look like in 3 years if things go well?\n2. what is your current situation — income, work, how you spend most of your time?\n3. what have you already tried, and what happened?\n4. what do you believe is the main thing holding you back right now?\n\nbe honest. especially on question 4.'" }, "diagnostic_protocol": { "method": "Sequential questioning across 5 rounds. Each round probes a deeper layer — from surface situation to identity-level patterns. The system does not give advice mid-diagnosis. It asks, listens, challenges inconsistencies, and builds a complete picture before delivering the strategic report.", "challenge_rule": "If an answer is vague, contradictory, or sounds like a rationalization — call it out directly before moving to the next round. Example: 'you said time is your main constraint, but you also said you spend 2-3 hours a day on social media. that's not a time problem. what's actually going on?'", "pattern_recognition_note": "Track contradictions, repeated excuses, and avoidance signals across all rounds. These are the real diagnostic data — more valuable than the direct answers.", "round_transition": "After each round, deliver one sharp observation about what the answers reveal — one sentence, no advice — then move to the next round." }, "diagnostic_rounds": [ { "round_id": "R1", "name": "Current Reality", "purpose": "Establish the baseline — where they are, what they want, and what they believe the problem is. The gap between their stated problem and the real problem will emerge over subsequent rounds.", "already_asked_in_activation": true }, { "round_id": "R2", "name": "Output & Execution Audit", "purpose": "Determine whether the bottleneck is strategic (wrong direction) or executional (not moving fast enough or consistently enough). Most people confuse the two.", "questions_to_ask": "**ROUND 2 — HOW YOU ACTUALLY OPERATE**\n\n5. walk me through what yesterday looked like — hour by hour if you can. what did you actually do?\n6. what is the one thing that, if you did it consistently every day, would have the most impact on your goal — and how often are you actually doing it?\n7. when you hit resistance or feel stuck, what do you do? be specific.\n8. what have you been 'about to start' or 'planning to do' for more than 30 days without doing it?" }, { "round_id": "R3", "name": "Environment & Leverage Audit", "purpose": "Identify whether the environment is working for or against the user. Most execution failures are environment failures, not willpower failures. Also assess leverage — are they working on the highest-value activities or staying busy with low-return tasks?", "questions_to_ask": "**ROUND 3 — YOUR ENVIRONMENT & LEVERAGE**\n\n9. who are the 3-5 people you spend the most time with — and are they ahead of you, at your level, or behind you in terms of where you want to go?\n10. what does your physical workspace and daily structure look like — do you have dedicated deep work time or does your day happen to you?\n11. where does most of your time go that produces the least result?\n12. what would you do differently if you had no fear of judgment from anyone in your life?" }, { "round_id": "R4", "name": "Belief & Identity Audit", "purpose": "Surface the identity-level constraints. Most external failures are internal problems wearing external clothes. The story someone tells about why they are stuck is almost always a defense mechanism protecting a deeper belief.", "questions_to_ask": "**ROUND 4 — WHAT YOU ACTUALLY BELIEVE**\n\n13. finish this sentence honestly: 'people like me don't usually...'\n14. what is the version of success you want — but feel slightly embarrassed or guilty about wanting?\n15. what would have to be true about you for your goal to be inevitable — and do you currently believe those things are true?\n16. what is the story you tell yourself about why you haven't gotten there yet — and what percentage of that story do you actually believe is accurate?" }, { "round_id": "R5", "name": "Commitment & Stakes Audit", "purpose": "Determine whether the user is genuinely committed or exploring. Plans built for the uncommitted are worthless. Also establish stakes — people who have something to lose move faster than people who are just chasing something to gain.", "questions_to_ask": "**ROUND 5 — HOW SERIOUS YOU ARE**\n\n17. on a scale of 1-10, how important is this goal to you — and what makes it not a 10?\n18. what have you already sacrificed or given up in pursuit of this — and what are you still unwilling to sacrifice?\n19. if nothing changes in the next 12 months, what does your life look like — and how does that feel?\n20. what is one thing you know you need to do but have been avoiding — and what specifically happens in your head when you think about doing it?" } ], "synthesis_protocol": { "trigger": "After all 5 rounds are complete", "instruction": "Analyze all 20 answers as a complete psychological and strategic profile. Identify the primary constraint category and up to two secondary constraints. Cross-reference stated beliefs against observed behaviors. Flag every contradiction. Then deliver the full strategic report.", "constraint_categories": [ { "id": "C1", "name": "Strategic Misdirection", "description": "The user is working hard but on the wrong things. High effort, low leverage. The goal is clear but the path chosen will not lead there efficiently or at all.", "signals": ["Busy but not progressing", "Multiple projects, no depth", "Confuses activity with progress"] }, { "id": "C2", "name": "Execution Deficit", "description": "The strategy is sound but execution is inconsistent. Starts strong, loses momentum. Plans accumulate, actions do not.", "signals": ["Long list of things 'about to start'", "Great clarity on what to do, poor follow-through", "Performance is environment-dependent — good days and bad days with no system bridging them"] }, { "id": "C3", "name": "Environment Drag", "description": "The user's environment is actively working against their goals — social circle, physical space, daily structure, or information diet. Willpower cannot sustainably override a hostile environment.", "signals": ["Peer group at or below current level", "No protected deep work time", "Decisions made reactively rather than proactively"] }, { "id": "C4", "name": "Identity Ceiling", "description": "The user's current self-concept cannot hold the level of success they are pursuing. Every time they approach the ceiling, unconscious behavior pulls them back to a familiar level. This is the hardest constraint to see and the most important to address.", "signals": ["Guilt or embarrassment about wanting more", "'People like me' language", "Self-sabotage at the threshold of a breakthrough", "Success followed immediately by a mistake that undoes it"] }, { "id": "C5", "name": "Fear-Driven Avoidance", "description": "The most important actions are consistently deprioritized. The user knows what to do but does not do it. The avoidance is not laziness — it is fear of judgment, failure, or success.", "signals": ["One specific action avoided for 30+ days", "Busy work used to justify not doing the hard thing", "Overthinking and planning as a substitute for doing"] }, { "id": "C6", "name": "Commitment Gap", "description": "The goal is desired but not truly committed to. The user is exploring the idea of success rather than pursuing it. Without genuine commitment, no system will hold.", "signals": ["Stakes are not felt viscerally", "Sacrifice is theoretical, not actual", "Goal importance rated below 9/10 with no urgency attached to the gap"] } ] }, "output_structure": { "report_sections": [ { "section": "THE HARD TRUTH", "instruction": "Start here. Always. Deliver the single most important thing the user needs to hear — the observation they have probably been avoiding. This is not an attack. It is the most valuable thing the report contains. It must be specific to their answers, not generic. Maximum 4 sentences." }, { "section": "WHO YOU ACTUALLY ARE RIGHT NOW", "content": "A profile of the user based on their answers — not who they want to be, but who they are demonstrating themselves to be through their actions, patterns, and beliefs. Includes: dominant operating pattern, primary strength, primary self-sabotage mechanism, and the gap between self-perception and observable behavior." }, { "section": "PRIMARY CONSTRAINT", "content": "The single root cause holding them back. Named clearly, explained precisely, with specific evidence from their answers. This is not a list of problems — it is the one constraint that, if removed, unlocks everything else." }, { "section": "SECONDARY CONSTRAINTS", "content": "Up to two additional patterns that need to be addressed — but only after the primary constraint is handled. Sequencing matters. Trying to fix everything at once fixes nothing." }, { "section": "YOUR BLIND SPOTS", "content": "The things the user cannot see about themselves — derived from contradictions between what they said and what their answers revealed. Direct, specific, without softening." }, { "section": "THE LEVERAGE POINT", "content": "The single highest-leverage action or shift available to this person right now. The one move that creates the most downstream impact with the least wasted effort. This is not a to-do list — it is a focal point." }, { "section": "THE SYSTEM", "content": "A personalized, concrete action system built around the primary constraint and leverage point. Includes: daily non-negotiables (3 maximum), weekly review structure, one metric to track above all others, and the environmental changes required to make the system self-sustaining rather than willpower-dependent." }, { "section": "THE 90-DAY OPERATING PLAN", "content": "Three phases of 30 days each. Each phase has one primary objective, 2-3 specific actions, and a clear success metric. The plan must be achievable but uncomfortable — if it does not require the user to change something meaningful, it will not produce a meaningful result." }, { "section": "YOUR ASSIGNMENT", "instruction": "End every report with one specific assignment to be completed before the next conversation. It must: target the primary constraint directly, have a clear deadline, and have a binary success metric — either done or not done. No partial credit. Frame it as a direct challenge." } ] }, "ongoing_interaction_rules": { "after_report_delivery": "Once the report is delivered, shift into advisory mode. For every subsequent message the user sends, apply this structure: (1) the hard truth relevant to what they just said, (2) specific actionable next step, (3) a direct challenge or follow-up question that pushes them forward.", "accountability_rule": "If the user returns without completing their assignment, call it out before anything else. Do not move forward until the reason for the failure is examined honestly — not accepted as a valid excuse.", "progress_check_rule": "Every 30 days, run a condensed re-diagnosis: what has changed, what has not, and whether the primary constraint has shifted. Update the plan accordingly.", "confrontation_rule": "If the user is rationalizing, avoiding, or seeking validation instead of input — name it immediately. Example: 'you are not asking me for advice right now. you are asking me to tell you that what you are already doing is enough. it is not. here is what needs to change.'", "upgrade_rule": "As the user grows, raise the standard. What was acceptable at the beginning is not acceptable at month three. The advisor's expectations scale with the user's demonstrated capacity." } }
__PromptX__
__@sohrabhossain39__
I’m 26. I make $90k/month. My strategy is just me, myself, & AI. Here’s the exact step-by-step formula I used so you can escape the matrix in 2026:
__9:31 AM · Mar 8, 2026__·__204.6K Views__
Relevant
__View quotes__
__PromptX__
__@sohrabhossain39__
·
__Mar 8__
Step 1: Stop trying to reinvent the wheel. The biggest mistake most people make? Thinking they need an original idea. I didn't create anything new… I just found what was already working and used AI to replicate it at scale.
__PromptX__
__@sohrabhossain39__
·
__Mar 8__
Step 2: Pick a niche where people are already desperate. I'm talking about topics that trigger real insecurity: • Fitness (vanity sells) • Money (everyone wants it) • Business (people want freedom) • AI (people afraid of getting replaced) These niches have audiences who actually buy.
__PromptX__
__@sohrabhossain39__
·
__Mar 8__
Step 3: Let AI do the actual work. I use ViralFindr to find posts that have already got millions of views. Then I feed them into ChatGPT: "Adapt this for my page about [niche]." Canva AI creates the visuals in minutes & Later(.com) posts it all automatically. Total time? 30Show more
__PromptX__
__@sohrabhossain39__
·
__Mar 8__
Step 4: Build once, profit forever. Here's what most people miss: You're not building a job (you're building an asset that will pay you 24/7). My Shadow Pages generate cash flow whether I'm awake or not. No filming. No face. No constant hustle. Just systems that run themselves.
__PromptX__
__@sohrabhossain39__
·
__Mar 8__
Step 5: Stack pages like real estate. One page = $5k-10k/month. But here's the cheat code: You can run multiple pages simultaneously. Shadow Page #1 → Pure profit Shadow Page #2 → Pays my rent Shadow Page #3 → Pays for travel Three pages = $30k/month (passive).
__PromptX__
__@sohrabhossain39__
·
__Mar 8__
Step 6: Let brands come to you. Once you hit 50k-100k followers, companies start reaching out. They pay $500-2,000 per shoutout. Long-term deals? $5k-15k per month. I've worked with major ecom brands that paid me 5-figures/month just to post.
__PromptX__
__@sohrabhossain39__
·
__Mar 8__
Most people will spend 2026 hoping their job is "safe." I'm spending it building something that makes job security irrelevant. If you're ready to use AI to build passive income & actually own your time... DM me "Ready" and I'll show you the exact system.
__PromptX__
__@sohrabhossain39__
·
__Mar 8__
That's a wrap!  If you enjoyed this thread: 1. Follow__ @sohrabhossain39__ for more AI knowledge. 2. RT this thread with your audience. Turn on notifications for daily Al updates, new tools and tips!
__Jim Prosser__
__@jimprosser__
My chief of staff, Claude Code
The dream of modern personalized technology has always been some kind of perfect digital assistant—a chief of staff that triages your inbox, organizes your day, and handles the operational overhead of your life before you've had your first coffee. For most people, that dream still lives in the vague future, somewhere between "Siri, but good" and science fiction.
It's achievable today, even for people who aren't programmers. I know because I just built it over 36 hours with__ Claude Code__.
I should be specific about my coding credentials here: I have none. I'm a 43-year-old tech communications consultant who runs__ a solo practice__ in Marin County, California. But I designed this system, and the system works because Claude Code lets me think and then takes care of the rest.
What It Actually Does
Every morning before I wake up, two automated processes run on my always-on Mac Studio. The first scans the present and next day's Google Calendar for meetings at physical locations, calculates real drive times using the Google Maps API, and creates transit time events so I know when to leave and don't double-book anything. The second triages yesterday's email, identifies anything requiring action, checks my task manager (I use__ Todoist__) for duplicates, and creates properly attributed tasks with priorities, due dates, and duration estimates.
By 6:15 AM, my task system is current without me touching it.
When I get to my desk, I hit a button on my__ Stream Deck__ labeled "AM Sweep." This triggers a command in Claude Code that pulls my tasks along with my calendar and recent meeting transcripts for context, then classifies every item into one of four categories. Green means Claude can complete the task fully on its own. Yellow means it can get 80% of the way there and I finish. Red means it needs my brain or my presence. Gray means it's not actionable today. I see the full categorized list, adjust anything that looks off, and say "go."
Here's where it gets interesting. Six specialized AI agents fire in parallel, each with their own context window and scoped tool access. One drafts emails (it never sends, only drafts). Another updates my client files in__ Obsidian__, my knowledge management system. Another schedules meetings. Another runs background research on a prospect, a topic, or a news event. They all work simultaneously while I focus on strategic work: writing, calls, the stuff that actually requires my brain and judgment.
A couple minutes later, I get a completion report. Tasks marked done. Email drafts sitting in Gmail for my review. Client notes updated. Research filed. Next steps flagged.
The AM Sweep in action. Fictional tasks and company names, but real system format and logic.
Then I press a second button on the Stream Deck called "Time Block" that executes another command that turns my remaining Todoist tasks into a time-blocked calendar using the duration estimates already assigned above. It knows which tasks need to happen at home versus the office versus specific locations. It batches all my errands into a single outing, routed geographically to minimize backtracking, with real Google Maps drive times. It schedules gym time on the right days. It puts home tasks in the evening window after my kids are in bed. If something doesn't fit today, it recommends a specific future day based on how loaded that day already is.
I review the proposed schedule, adjust if needed, and say "go." Calendar events appear. My day is structured. One minute.
The first time I watched the whole thing work, with six agents running in parallel, my terminal filling with progress updates, I just stared at the screen and laughed. Now I just jam to some music and start cracking away at tasks.
The Architecture (Not the Code)
The entire system runs on Claude Code. If you haven't used it: you describe what you want in plain English, and Claude writes and executes the code. The key capability that makes my system possible is subagents, basically independent AI workers that Claude Code spins up in parallel, each with their own instructions, tool access, and context.
But the code isn't the interesting part. The interesting part is the design.
The critical insight was figuring out the layering: each component had to know the others existed. The overnight email scanner doesn't just dump tasks into my task manager; it attributes them with the metadata that the Morning Sweep needs to classify them correctly. The AM Sweep doesn't just triage; it assembles context packages that each subagent needs to do its job in an independent context window. The time-blocker doesn't just schedule; it reads the output of everything upstream and accounts for it. You get the picture.
This is what separates a system from a collection of scripts. Each piece is designed to feed the next one. Remove any layer and the others still work. But the whole is dramatically more than the sum: six independent workers holding different contexts simultaneously, none of them competing for attention or memory like talking to a chatbot.
The actual building was a conversation. I wrote detailed__ Markdown files__ describing exactly how I wanted each piece to behave: classification criteria, voice guidelines, scheduling rules, tool permissions. Claude Code read those plain-English files as instructions and implemented them. I iterated by running the system against my real task list and tuning when things got miscategorized or an agent made a bad judgment call. Thirty-six hours, start to finish.
I didn't need to understand the code at a syntax level at all. But I did need to have a clear picture of the architecture: what talks to what, what each piece is responsible for, where the human-AI boundaries are. That's systems thinking, not software engineering.
The Most Crucial Design Principle
The single most important decision I made was being extremely deliberate about what stays human.
The system never sends an email. It drafts and I review. The system never writes my Strategic Briefs, the core strategic documents that define each client engagement. Those are 100% mine. The system never makes pricing decisions, handles relationship-sensitive communications, or makes strategic calls. When it's uncertain whether a task needs my judgment, it defaults to "prep" (get it 80% ready for me) rather than "dispatch" (handle it fully).
This sounds obvious, but experience tells me otherwise. It's probably the decision most people most frequently get wrong when they build automations like this or start thinking about "__agentifying__" their work. They either go too timid, and the system is basically a fancy to-do list that doesn't actually do anything, or too aggressive, and the AI starts firing off emails that don't sound like you and making decisions you didn't authorize. The middle ground is narrow and specific to your operation, and finding it is the real work.
The framework I landed on: dispatch, prep, yours, skip. Green tasks get fully handled. Yellow tasks get prepped with options for me to choose from. Red tasks are flagged as mine with whatever supporting context the system can assemble. Gray tasks get deferred with a reason. The system's bias is always toward involving me on anything ambiguous.
What It Replaced
I run a boutique consultancy. Five clients maximum, all referral, no junior staff. The system replaces what would otherwise be a skilled operations person, someone who knows my clients, understands my voice, manages my calendar, and handles the daily operational overhead of running a professional services firm.
Before this, that person was... me. Every morning started with 30-45 minutes of reviewing email, updating tasks, scheduling, filing notes, and doing the kind of operational housekeeping that's necessary but not valuable. That time is now single-digit minutes.
So the automations are saving me 30-45 minutes every morning, five days a week, across a year, to say nothing of the time saved from the tasks Claude can handle straightaway. That's somewhere between 130 and 195 hours annually on its own. Not exactly a rounding error.
The bigger win isn't time, it's cognitive load on my brain that's saved. When I sit down in the morning, the operational state of my business is already organized, triaged, and waiting for decisions rather than assembly. I start the day in decision mode instead of gathering mode. If you've ever run a business by yourself, you know that distinction isn't abstract. It's the difference between a morning that drains you and one that focuses you. The overnight automations also killed a low-grade anxiety about email I'd been carrying so long I didn't notice it until it was gone.
What It Costs
I'm on Claude's Max plan, which is $100/month as of this writing. Claude Code is included in the subscription, though heavy usage can exceed what's covered. In practice, most of my usage fits within the plan. When it doesn't, the overrun is trivial and laughably small relative to the productivity gains. The overnight automations use the cheaper, faster Sonnet model while everything else uses the more robust logic of the Opus model. My Google Maps API calls are well under Google's cap for the free tier. Hosting is free, since everything runs locally on my Mac Studio.
Total incremental cost beyond the subscription I was already paying: maybe $5-10/month on the high end. A part-time virtual assistant doing comparable work would cost somewhere between $400/month on the low end and $1,000/month on the high end, and they wouldn't have instant access to (or near-instant processing of) my meeting transcripts, email history, and knowledge base.
The Bigger Point
I didn't set out to build a chief of staff straightaway. I set out to solve one problem, and solving it revealed the next one. The overnight inbox scan made the morning triage better. Better triage made the subagent dispatch possible. Reliable dispatch made time-blocking viable. Each piece assumed the others existed. Thirty-six hours of work, compounding on itself.
If you're in San Francisco or the Valley, you might think everyone's doing this already. They're not. Step outside the tech bubble and almost nobody is using AI to build the operational infrastructure of their actual business. That gap is going to close eventually, and when it does, the professionals who figured it out early and developed the instinct for what to automate and what to keep human, who learned to think in systems rather than prompts, are going to have an enormous advantage over the ones who waited for someone to package it into a SaaS product.
I don't know exactly where this goes next. But I know that my mornings are pretty great now, and the difference isn't just efficiency. It's that the operational weight of running a business has been redistributed in a way that lets me spend my time on the things I actually want to do.
(Oh, and the chief of staff is just the morning operations layer piece. I also built systems that automates my entire client lifecycle paired with a holistic knowledge architecture that gives Claude persistent context about my entire business. But that's a post for another day...)
How to Build A Claude Code Chief of Staff
A step-by-step architecture guide for non-programmers
Version: 1.0 Last updated: March 6, 2026 Author: __Jim Prosser__ · __Tamalpais Strategies__


This guide accompanies my piece __"My chief of staff, Claude Code"__ If you haven't read that yet, start there for the what and why. This document is the how.


After publishing that piece, a lot of people asked for the how-to. This is that guide.
A few caveats up front. Every system like this needs to be contoured to your operation — your tools, your workflows, your judgment about what should stay human. What I'm giving you is the architecture and the design thinking. Claude Code handles the implementation once you give it clear instructions.
You don't need to be a programmer. I'm not one. But you do need to be a clear thinker about systems: what talks to what, what each piece is responsible for, and where the boundaries are. That's the real skill here.
Table of Contents
* __What You Need__
* __The Architecture at a Glance__
* __Layer 1: Calendar Transit Scanner__
* __Layer 2: Inbox Scan__
* __Layer 3: The Morning Sweep__
* __Layer 4: Time Block__
* __General Principles__
* __Getting Started Today__
* __Changelog__
* __License__
* __About__
What You Need
Required:
* Claude Max or Pro subscription (Claude Code is included)
* A computer that can stay on (Mac Mini, Mac Studio, a desktop, or a server — the overnight automations need a machine that's awake at 5 AM)
* A task manager with an API (I use Todoist; any task manager with programmatic access works)
* A calendar you can read and write programmatically (Google Calendar)
* An email account you can search programmatically (Gmail)
Helpful but not strictly required:
* A meeting transcription tool with an API or MCP connector (I use Granola)
* A knowledge management system (I use Obsidian)
* A Stream Deck or similar macro pad (for one-button triggers)
Cost:
* Claude Max subscription: $100/month (as of March 2026)
* Google Maps API: free tier covers typical usage
* Everything else runs locally — no additional SaaS
The Architecture at a Glance
The system has four layers that run in sequence each day. Each layer feeds the next, but any layer works independently if you skip the others.
Layer
When
How
What It Does
1. Calendar Transit
5:30 AM (automated)
Scheduled script
Scans tomorrow's calendar, creates transit buffer events with real drive times
2. Inbox Scan
6:00 AM (automated)
Scheduled script
Triages yesterday's email into tasks, enriches existing tasks
3. Morning Sweep
When you sit down (interactive)
One button press
Classifies tasks, dispatches parallel AI agents
4. Time Block
After the sweep (interactive)
One button press
Turns remaining tasks into a time-blocked calendar
Layers 1 and 2 run overnight with no human involvement. Layers 3 and 4 are interactive — you review and approve before anything happens.
The critical design insight: each layer assumes the others exist. The inbox scan attributes tasks with the metadata the Morning Sweep needs to classify them. The sweep assembles context packages each agent needs. The time-blocker reads everything upstream. This is what makes it a system rather than a collection of scripts.


Layer 1: Calendar Transit Scanner
What it does: Scans your calendar for events at physical locations, calculates real drive times using the Google Maps API, and creates buffer events so you see realistic availability windows and know when to leave.
When it runs: Overnight, before your day starts. I run mine at 5:30 AM.
Step 1: Get a Google Maps API Key
You need the Routes API (not the older Distance Matrix API) from Google Cloud Console. Create a project, enable the Routes API, and generate an API key. Store the key in a file with restricted permissions — something like ~/.config/google-maps/api-key with 600 permissions so only your user account can read it.
The free tier gives you far more requests than you'll use. A typical day needs 2-5 route calculations.
Step 2: Build the Travel Time Script
Create a script that takes an origin and destination and returns the drive time. This is a simple wrapper around the Google Maps Routes API that calls routes.googleapis.com/directions/v2:computeRoutes with traffic-aware routing.
Write a markdown file describing exactly what you want:
# Travel Time Script
A Node.js script that calculates drive time between two addresses.
## Input
- Origin address (string)
- Destination address (string)
## Output
JSON with minutes, display text, and distance.
## Requirements
- Uses the Google Maps Routes API (routes.googleapis.com/directions/v2:computeRoutes)
- Traffic-aware routing (TRAFFIC_AWARE preference)
- Reads API key from ~/.config/google-maps/api-key
- No npm dependencies — Node.js built-in modules only
## Multi-stop support
If the destination contains pipe-separated addresses ("stop1|stop2|stop3"),
return an array of leg-by-leg results for geographic routing.
Give this file to Claude Code and tell it to implement it. Test it with a couple of real addresses.
Step 3: Build the Calendar Transit Automation
This is the overnight script that reads your calendar and creates transit blocks. Write another markdown spec:
# Calendar Transit Automation
Scan tomorrow's Google Calendar for events with physical locations.
For each event with a location, create up to two transit buffer events:
## Pre-event transit
- Title: "Transit → [Event Name]"
- Ends when the event starts
- Duration = drive time + 5 minute parking buffer
- Origin: my office during work hours, my home otherwise.
  If another event with a location precedes this one, use that
  event's location as origin.
## Post-event transit
- Title: "Transit → [Next Destination]"
- Starts when the event ends
- Duration = drive time to next destination (or office/home)
## Skip rules
- Skip virtual meetings (Zoom/Teams/Meet URLs in the location)
- Skip events at my office address
- Skip walking-distance trips (< 5 min drive)
- Skip events that already have adjacent transit blocks
- Never create a transit block that overlaps an existing event
## Configuration
- Office address: [YOUR OFFICE ADDRESS]
- Home address: [YOUR HOME ADDRESS]
- Office hours: weekdays 9 AM – 5 PM (assume office as origin)
- Outside office hours: assume home as origin
Step 4: Schedule It
On macOS, use a LaunchAgent plist to run the script at 5:30 AM daily. Claude Code can generate the plist file and show you where to put it (~/Library/LaunchAgents/). The script uses Claude Code's non-interactive mode (claude -p) with a scoped set of allowed tools — only calendar read/write and the bash command for calling your travel time script.
On Linux, use a cron job or systemd timer. The approach is the same.
Key design decision: Use the cheaper, faster Claude model (Sonnet) for overnight automations. The logic is structured enough that it doesn't need the more expensive reasoning model.
Cost cap: Set a maximum budget per run (--max-budget-usd) to prevent runaway costs if something goes wrong. I use $2.00, which is generous — typical runs cost a fraction of that.


Layer 2: Inbox Scan
What it does: Searches yesterday's email, identifies anything requiring action, checks your task manager for duplicates, and creates properly attributed tasks.
When it runs: After the calendar scanner, before you wake up. I run mine at 6:00 AM.
Step 1: Define Your Priority Framework
Before building anything, decide how you prioritize tasks. This framework gets embedded in the automation's prompt and determines how every task gets attributed. Here's the one I use:
* P1 — Hard consequence if missed. Revenue, health, legal, or relationship damage. Test: "If I miss this, something bad happens I can't fix next week."
* P2 — Time-sensitive with compounding delay cost. Test: "Delay narrows my options or creates a crunch later."
* P3 — Important, flexible timing. Test: "I'd be annoyed if this slipped a month, but a few days is fine."
* P4 — Do when there's space. Test: "If this disappeared for two weeks, I wouldn't notice."
Write this down explicitly. The automation needs unambiguous criteria.
Step 2: Write the Inbox Scan Spec
# Daily Inbox Scan
## Phase 1: Email → Tasks
1. Search yesterday's email (exclude promotions, social, updates, forums)
2. Triage by snippet — skip automated notifications, newsletters, FYIs
3. Read potentially actionable messages in full
4. Extract tasks: direct questions, assigned deliverables, scheduling
   requests, commitments I made
5. Check task manager for duplicate tasks (both active and completed)
6. Create tasks with:
   - Verb-first title (e.g., "Send revised deck to [person]")
   - Priority (P1–P4, using the framework above)
   - Due date (inferred from context, or reasonable default)
   - Duration estimate
   - Description with context and link back to the email
   - Correct project assignment
## Phase 2: Task Hygiene
1. Pull recently added tasks from the task manager
2. Evaluate each task's attributes against quality standards
3. Fill in missing priorities, durations, due dates, descriptions
4. Leave well-attributed tasks alone
## Tools needed
- Email: search and read (NEVER send)
- Task manager: search, create, update
- No calendar access, no filesystem access
Step 3: Scope the Tool Access Tightly
This is critical for overnight automations. The script runs without you watching, so you want to restrict it to exactly the tools it needs and nothing else. My inbox scan can search and read Gmail, and search/create/update Todoist tasks. It cannot send emails, modify my calendar, or touch any files. Claude Code's --allowedTools flag enforces this.
Step 4: Add State Tracking
You don't want the scan to re-process the same emails or re-enrich the same tasks every morning. Add a simple state file (a timestamp of the last successful run) so subsequent runs only look at what's new since the last scan.
Step 5: Schedule It
Same approach as Layer 1 — a LaunchAgent (macOS) or cron job (Linux) that runs 30 minutes after the calendar scanner finishes. Sonnet model, budget cap, scoped tools.
Important: The script needs --dangerously-skip-permissions for headless execution because there's no terminal to approve tool calls. This is why the tight tool scoping in Step 3 matters — you're trading the interactive approval gate for a whitelist gate.


Layer 3: The Morning Sweep
What it does: This is the interactive layer — the one you see. It pulls your tasks, calendar, and recent meeting context, classifies everything into four categories, then dispatches parallel AI agents to handle what it can.
When it runs: When you sit down at your desk. One button press.
Step 1: Define the Classification Framework
Every task gets one of four labels:
* 🟢 DISPATCH — AI can handle this fully. Email drafts, file updates, scheduling, research.
* 🟡 PREP — AI can get 80% there, you finish. Sensitive emails, meeting prep, content that needs your voice.
* 🔴 YOURS — Needs your brain or presence. Strategy, live meetings, relationship-sensitive conversations.
* ⚪ SKIP — Not actionable today. Deferred with a reason.
The critical bias: When uncertain, default to PREP over DISPATCH. False confidence wastes more time than asking.
Step 2: Design Your Agents
This is the most architecturally interesting part. Each agent is a specialized AI worker that runs in its own independent context window with scoped tool access. They execute in parallel — while one drafts emails, another updates your files, another runs research.
Here are the agents I use. Yours will differ based on your tools and workflow:
Agent
Role
Tools It Gets
Comms Agent
Email drafting, scheduling replies
Email (read + draft, never send), meeting transcripts, calendar
Calendar Agent
Scheduling, availability checks
Calendar, task manager, email
Knowledge Agent
File updates, meeting note processing
Filesystem (your knowledge base), meeting transcripts
Research Agent
Background research, competitive intel
Web search, filesystem
Document Agent
Written deliverables, reports
Filesystem
Task Agent
Task manager cleanup, reorganization
Task manager
Step 3: Write the Agent Instructions
Each agent needs a detailed markdown instruction file. This is where most of the design work happens. The instruction file tells the agent:
* What it does — its role and scope
* What tools it has — and critically, what it doesn't have
* How to handle uncertainty — when to complete vs. flag for review
* Quality standards — what "done" looks like
* Safety boundaries — what it must never do
Example structure for a comms agent:
# Comms Agent
You draft email responses and schedule follow-ups. You NEVER send
emails — you save drafts only.
## For each task:
1. Read the relevant email thread for full context
2. If the task references a recent meeting, pull the transcript
3. Draft a response that matches the tone and formality of the thread
4. Save as a draft in the sender's thread
5. Mark the task complete in the task manager
## Safety rules:
- Never send. Only draft.
- If the email involves pricing, contracts, legal matters, or
  anything relationship-sensitive, save the draft but flag it for
  human review instead of marking complete.
- If you're unsure about tone, err toward more formal.
## Tools available:
- Email: search, read, create draft
- Meeting transcripts: search, read
- Calendar: read only (for scheduling context)
Step 4: Write the Sweep Command
The sweep command is the orchestrator. It:
1. Gathers context — pulls today's and tomorrow's tasks, today's calendar, and recent meeting transcripts
2. Classifies — applies the dispatch/prep/yours/skip framework to every task
3. Presents — shows you the full triage for review
4. Dispatches — on your approval, spins up the appropriate agents in parallel with context packages
The context package is key. Each agent gets a tailored prompt that includes everything it needs to do its job — the task description, relevant email threads, meeting notes, calendar context. Agents run in independent context windows, so they have no memory of the triage. Everything they need must be in the dispatch prompt.
# Morning Sweep Command
## Phase 1: Gather
Pull from all sources:
- Todoist: today's tasks + tomorrow's tasks + overdue
- Google Calendar: today's events
- Meeting transcripts: meetings from the last 48 hours
## Phase 2: Classify
For each task, assign one of:
- 🟢 DISPATCH — AI handles fully
- 🟡 PREP — AI preps, human finishes
- 🔴 YOURS — Human only
- ⚪ SKIP — Not today
Classification rules:
[Your specific rules here — what makes something green vs. yellow
vs. red for YOUR operation]
Default to PREP when uncertain.
## Phase 3: Present
Show the full triage as a structured list with:
- Category color and label
- Task name and project
- For DISPATCH: which agent handles it and the plan
- For PREP: what the AI will prepare and what the human finishes
- For YOURS: supporting context the AI can assemble
- For SKIP: reason for deferral
Approval options:
- "go" — dispatch all green and yellow
- "go green" — dispatch only green
- Cherry-pick by number
## Phase 4: Dispatch
For each approved task, spin up the appropriate subagent with:
- The agent's instruction file
- A context package with all relevant information
- Scoped tool access per the agent's tool list
Run agents in parallel. After all complete, present a summary report.
Only mark tasks complete after confirmed agent execution.
Step 5: Create a One-Button Trigger
In Claude Code, save the sweep command as a slash command (/morning-sweep). Then create a one-button trigger:
* Stream Deck: Run a shell script that executes claude /morning-sweep in your terminal
* Raycast: Create a script command
* Keyboard Maestro: Create a macro
* Or just type it: Open your terminal and run the command directly


Layer 4: Time Block
What it does: Takes your remaining tasks and builds a time-blocked calendar with real travel times, geographic errand batching, and smart rollover for tasks that don't fit.
When it runs: Immediately after the Morning Sweep. One more button press.
Step 1: Define Your Schedule Constraints
Write down the rules that govern your day. Be specific:
# Schedule Rules
## Work hours
- Office tasks: 8:30 AM – 4:00 PM
- Evening tasks (home only): 7:00 PM – 9:15 PM
- Never schedule home tasks before 7 PM on weekdays
## Fixed blocks
- Lunch: 30-minute gap between 11:30 AM – 1:30 PM (no event, just a gap)
- Gym: Monday/Wednesday/Friday, 1-hour block + travel time
  Location: [YOUR GYM ADDRESS]
## Locations
- Office: [YOUR OFFICE ADDRESS]
- Home: [YOUR HOME ADDRESS]
- Each task gets tagged: HOME, OFFICE, ERRAND, GYM, or ANYWHERE
## Errand batching
- Group all errands into a single contiguous block
- Route geographically to minimize backtracking
- Include real drive times between stops
## Scheduling priority
- Quick wins first (tasks ≤ 15 minutes) for momentum
- Then P1 → P2 → P3 → P4
## Rollover rules (when tasks don't fit)
- P1: Flag loudly, never silently roll
- P2: Roll to next business day
- P3: Roll to lightest day within 5 days
- P4: Roll to lightest day within 7 days
Step 2: Write the Time Block Command
# Time Block Command
## Gather
- Todoist: today + overdue + 7-day lookahead (for rollover decisions)
- Google Calendar: today + 3-day lookahead from all calendars
## Classify locations
Tag each task: HOME, OFFICE, ERRAND, GYM, or ANYWHERE
## Build schedule
1. Block fixed commitments (existing calendar events, gym, lunch gap)
2. Schedule quick wins first (≤ 15 min)
3. Fill remaining blocks by priority (P1 → P4)
4. Batch errands into one geographic route with drive times
5. Put home tasks in the evening window only
## Travel time
Call the travel time script for:
- Errands (between each stop)
- Gym (from office and back)
- Any location-specific task
Include travel time within the calendar block, not as separate events.
## Present
Show proposed schedule as a table. Approval options:
- "go" — create all calendar events
- "go blocks only" — skip Todoist changes
- Adjust individual items
## Execute
- Create calendar events with a prefix (e.g., "[TB]") so the command
  can identify and replace its own events on re-runs
- Update Todoist due dates for rolled tasks
- For partial tasks: mark original complete, create "(part 2)" task
  with remaining duration
Step 3: Handle Non-Conflicts Between Systems
If you build both the Calendar Transit scanner (Layer 1) and the Time Blocker (Layer 4), they need to recognize each other's events. Transit blocks use the prefix "Transit →" and time blocks use "[TB]". Each system skips events with the other's prefix. This means they never create duplicate travel time and never accidentally overwrite each other's events. Document this explicitly in both specs.


General Principles
The Safety Model
The most important decisions in this entire system aren't about what to automate. They're about what NOT to automate.
My system never sends an email — it drafts. Never makes strategic decisions. Never handles relationship-sensitive communications. Never writes the documents that define my client relationships. When uncertain, it defaults to prepping something for my review rather than completing it autonomously.
Every overnight automation runs with explicitly scoped tool permissions — it can only touch what you've whitelisted. Every interactive command shows you what it's about to do before doing it.
Figure out your boundaries before you write a single spec. The middle ground between "fancy to-do list" and "AI gone rogue" is narrow and specific to your operation.
Start with One Layer, Not Four
Don't build the whole system at once. Start with Layer 2 (the inbox scan) because it's the highest-value, lowest-risk automation — it creates tasks, and you review them before acting. Run it for a week. Tune the priority framework. Get comfortable with the overnight-automation-into-morning-review pattern.
Then add the Morning Sweep. Then the Time Blocker. The Calendar Transit scanner is a nice-to-have for people with lots of in-person meetings.
Each layer is independently useful. The magic of the full system is in how they feed each other, but you don't need all four to get real value.
Write Specs, Not Code
The single most transferable insight from building this system: your job is to write clear, detailed specifications in plain English. Claude Code's job is to implement them. The specs I described above — the priority framework, the classification rules, the agent instructions, the scheduling constraints — are the actual work product. The code is generated from those specs.
This means the quality of your system is directly proportional to the clarity of your thinking about your own workflows. If you can't articulate when a task should be dispatched versus prepped versus kept human, the AI can't either. The spec-writing forces you to make those decisions explicit, which is valuable even if you never build the automation.
Use the Right Model for the Right Job
Overnight automations that follow structured rules (email triage, calendar scanning) work great on the faster, cheaper Sonnet model. Interactive commands that require nuanced judgment (classifying whether a task needs your brain, assembling context for agents) benefit from the more capable Opus model. Set the model per automation, not globally.
Budget Caps Are Non-Negotiable
Every automated script should have a --max-budget-usd flag. This prevents runaway costs if a script loops or encounters unexpected input. Typical costs per run: calendar scanner $0.25–0.50, inbox scan $0.50–1.00, morning sweep $1.00–3.00 depending on task volume. Set your caps with comfortable headroom.
Iterate Against Real Data
Don't try to write perfect specs up front. Write a reasonable first pass, run the system against your actual tasks and email, and tune based on what gets misclassified or mishandled. The classification framework took me several iterations to stabilize. That's normal and expected.


Getting Started Today
If you do nothing else, do this:
1. Subscribe to Claude Max ($100/month) and install Claude Code
2. Write your priority framework (P1–P4 with concrete tests)
3. Write a one-page spec for the inbox scan describing your email, task manager, triage criteria, and what "actionable" means for your work
4. Give that spec to Claude Code and tell it to implement it
5. Run it manually a few times. Tune the spec based on results.
6. Schedule it to run overnight once you trust the output
That's Layer 2. Once it's running, you'll immediately see the pattern: the scan's output is structured data that a second-layer system could classify and act on. That's when you write the Morning Sweep spec. And so on.
The system compounds. Each piece you add inherits the work of everything before it. The hardest part isn't the building — it's deciding what your operation actually needs and being disciplined about what stays human.
Good luck. If you build something interesting, I want to hear about it.


Changelog
v1.0 — March 6, 2026
* Initial release covering the four-layer architecture: Calendar Transit, Inbox Scan, Morning Sweep, Time Block
* Priority framework, agent design patterns, safety model, scheduling constraints
* "Start with one layer" onboarding guidance


License
MIT. See __LICENSE__ for details.
About
I'm Jim Prosser. I run __Tamalpais Strategies__, a boutique communications strategy consultancy. I'm not a developer — I'm a communications advisor who builds systems. If you have questions, find me on __LinkedIn__ or __X__.
__zack__
__@whotfiszackk__
made $347k last year selling PDFs from pages nobody knows are mine
and i'm going to explain why personal brand is the most overrated waste of time in online business while you're out here doing face reveals and morning routines for 847 views
because you think people buy from PERSONALITIES when they actually buy from SOLUTIONS
and that delusion is keeping you broke while anonymous pages print money in silence
here's what you're doing wrong
you spend 40 hours per week building YOUR PERSONAL BRAND
posting selfies with captions about your journey
sharing your morning routine nobody asked for
doing instagram stories about your coffee and workspace
building parasocial relationships with an audience
thinking "people need to know, like, and trust ME before they buy"
meanwhile i have 6 faceless pages
zero personality content
zero personal updates
zero "day in the life" bullshit
just PRODUCT and DISTRIBUTION
and those pages generated $347k last year
while you made $3k from your beautiful personal brand
because i understand something you don't
PEOPLE DON'T BUY YOU, THEY BUY SOLUTIONS TO THEIR PROBLEMS
nobody gives a fuck about your morning routine bro
they don't care what coffee you drink or how you journal or what books are on your shelf
they care about ONE THING
"can you solve my problem or not"
and that answer has nothing to do with your face
here's the actual breakdown of my faceless empire
PAGE 1: notion templates for content creators
* 0 followers (it's just a gumroad page)
* 847 products sold at $37 = $31,339
* time spent: 20 hours total (created once, sells forever)
* personal brand requirement: zero
PAGE 2: cold email scripts for B2B sales
* faceless twitter account, 2.3k followers
* 312 products sold at $47 = $14,664
* time spent: 30 hours total (created product + basic content)
* personal brand requirement: zero
PAGE 3: resume templates for job seekers
* faceless instagram account, 8k followers
* 1,847 products sold at $27 = $49,869
* time spent: 15 hours creating, 2 hours weekly posting
* personal brand requirement: zero
PAGE 4: finance spreadsheet templates
* faceless tiktok account, 45k followers
* 2,934 products sold at $19 = $55,746
* time spent: 25 hours creating, 3 hours weekly posting
* personal brand requirement: zero
PAGE 5: productivity notion systems
* just gumroad + reddit distribution
* 1,483 products sold at $67 = $99,361
* time spent: 40 hours creating, 5 hours monthly on reddit
* personal brand requirement: zero
PAGE 6: real estate analysis templates
* faceless linkedin, 5k connections
* 743 products sold at $127 = $94,361
* time spent: 50 hours creating, 4 hours weekly content
* personal brand requirement: zero
total: $345,340 in revenue
total personal brand: ZERO
nobody knows these pages are connected
nobody knows my real name on 4 of them
nobody has seen my face
nobody cares about my story
they just want the fucking templates
and i give them the templates
and they give me money
that's it
that's the entire business model
no personal brand required
meanwhile you're out here
posting daily selfies with motivational quotes
sharing your "entrepreneur journey"
building your personal brand
creating content about yourself
and making $800 monthly
because you think the business is YOU
when the business is actually THE PRODUCT
here's what personal brand actually costs you
COST 1: TIME OVERHEAD
personal brand requires constant feeding
daily content about your life
stories and updates
maintaining the parasocial relationship
responding to DMs about non-business shit
you're spending 20+ hours weekly on personal brand maintenance
that's 1,040 hours yearly
that could be spent creating 20 new products
or scaling 5 existing ones
but instead you're posting gym selfies
COST 2: CREATIVE CONSTRAINTS
when you build personal brand you're locked into that personality
can't pivot niches easily (your audience knows you for X)
can't experiment freely (inconsistent with your brand)
can't be anonymous (you're the face)
can't sell the business easily (it's YOU-dependent)
meanwhile faceless pages:
pivot instantly if niche dies
experiment without risk
stay private and safe
sell for 3-5x revenue (not personality-dependent)
COST 3: PSYCHOLOGICAL OVERHEAD
personal brand means personal judgment
people judge your life not just your products
they have opinions about your face, voice, lifestyle
you feel pressure to maintain image
you can't have bad days publicly
you're performing 24/7
faceless pages have ZERO of this
nobody's judging you because nobody knows you're you
COST 4: SCALING LIMITATION
personal brand doesn't scale past YOU
you can't hire someone to be you
you can't automate your personality
you cap at your personal capacity
faceless pages scale infinitely
hire people to run them
automate content
multiply pages without multiplying effort
COST 5: SAFETY AND PRIVACY RISKS
personal brand exposes you
stalkers, haters, jealous people know who you are
they know your face, name, location
they can find you in real life
faceless pages protect you
nobody knows who you are
can't be doxxed
can't be harassed
stay completely private while printing money
but you're not thinking about ANY of this
you're just following what everyone else does
"build personal brand" they said
"people buy from people" they said
"authenticity matters" they said
all COPE from people who are stuck in the personal brand trap
and trying to justify why they're on camera every day making $2k monthly
here's the truth about "people buy from people"
THAT'S ONLY TRUE FOR HIGH-TICKET PERSONAL SERVICES
if you're selling $5k coaching, yeah they need to trust YOU
if you're consulting 1-on-1, yeah personality matters
but if you're selling a $37 PDF template
NOBODY GIVES A FUCK WHO MADE IT
they only care:
does it solve my problem
is it good quality
can i buy it right now
your face and story are IRRELEVANT
the product either works or it doesn't
here's the actual buying psychology for digital products
CUSTOMER THOUGHT PROCESS:
"i need a resume template that doesn't look like shit"
[googles "modern resume template"]
[finds faceless page with good examples]
"oh this looks clean, $27 is reasonable"
[buys it]
[downloads it]
[never thinks about it again]
NOWHERE IN THIS PROCESS DID THEY THINK:
"but who made this template"
"what's their morning routine"
"do i resonate with their personal brand"
"have they shared their journey"
they just wanted a FUCKING RESUME TEMPLATE
and you gave it to them
transaction complete
but personal brand people think they need to:
introduce themselves with face reveal
share their credentialing story
post daily updates building trust
nurture the relationship for weeks
then finally offer the product
all that overhead for a $27 sale
that could've happened instantly with a faceless page
make it make sense
here's what faceless actually looks like in practice
FACELESS PAGE OPERATION:
step 1: identify problem people pay to solve
step 2: create solution (template, guide, swipe file, tool)
step 3: set up simple distribution (gumroad + content account)
step 4: post valuable content related to problem (no personality)
step 5: link to product in profile
step 6: automate everything
step 7: repeat with new page in different niche
TIME INVESTMENT PER PAGE:
creation: 20-50 hours one-time
content: 2-5 hours weekly (can be batched and automated)
maintenance: basically zero (it runs itself)
REVENUE PER PAGE:
low end: $1k-3k monthly
mid range: $5k-15k monthly
high end: $30k+ monthly if you nail product-market fit
SCALING:
create multiple pages across different niches
hire VAs to run content ($300-500/month per page)
hire designers to create products ($500-2k one-time)
your time investment approaches ZERO
while revenue multiplies
try doing that with personal brand
you can't
because YOU are the bottleneck
with faceless you can own 50 pages and nobody knows
here's the comparison that should wake you up
PERSONAL BRAND BUSINESS:
you: 1 person posting face + life + products
revenue: $5k monthly (capped by your time)
time required: 40 hours weekly
scalability: low (can't clone yourself)
exit multiple: 1-2x (business dies without you)
privacy: zero (everyone knows everything)
flexibility: low (locked into your niche and personality)
FACELESS PAGE EMPIRE:
you: 8 faceless pages across niches
revenue: $45k monthly ($5-8k per page average)
time required: 10 hours weekly (mostly strategic)
scalability: infinite (launch new pages freely)
exit multiple: 3-5x (pages are transferable assets)
privacy: complete (nobody knows you own them)
flexibility: high (pivot or exit pages anytime)
same effort or LESS
9x the revenue
infinite scalability
complete privacy
but you chose personal brand
because everyone else is doing it
because you think you're special and people need to know YOU
because you're addicted to the dopamine of people recognizing you
and that addiction is costing you $40k monthly
here's what nobody tells you about personal brand
IT'S AN EGO TRAP
you're not building it because it's effective
you're building it because it feels good
people recognize you at events
people DM you saying they love your content
people treat you like a minor celebrity
that validation is ADDICTIVE
and it's keeping you from building real wealth
because real wealth is BORING
it's faceless pages that nobody knows about
grinding in the background
printing money while you sleep
no recognition, no validation, no ego boost
just REVENUE
and most people aren't willing to do that
they need the recognition
they need to be known
they need to be the FACE
even if it means making 1/10th the money
that's an ego problem disguised as a business strategy
here's what smart operators actually do
they run BOTH
personal brand on main account (for credibility, partnerships, high-ticket)
faceless pages for VOLUME and REVENUE
the personal brand is the front
the faceless empire is the backend
nobody knows about the faceless pages
because why would they
it's not about YOU it's about the MONEY
and faceless pages print money better than personal brand ever could
i have this twitter account as__ @imsehej__ (personal brand)
for credibility, for clients, for consulting, for high-ticket offers
but the MAJORITY of my revenue comes from faceless pages
that nobody knows are mine
and that's intentional
because i understand the game
personal brand opens doors
faceless pages print money
use both strategically
here's what you're going to do right now
you're going to stop posting selfies with motivational quotes
you're going to stop sharing your morning routine
you're going to stop building parasocial relationships
and you're going to create your first faceless page
pick a simple problem people pay to solve
create a basic template or guide solving it
set up a gumroad page
create a faceless twitter/instagram/tiktok
post valuable content related to the problem 2x daily
link to product in bio
watch it sell
then create page #2
and page #3
and build your faceless empire
while everyone else is busy being KNOWN
you'll be busy getting PAID
and in 12 months when you're making $30k+ monthly from faceless pages
nobody will know it's you
and that's exactly how you want it
because privacy + money > recognition + broke
every single time
i build info product businesses for people who have knowledge but no infrastructure. if that's you, DM "ARBITRAGE"__ @whotfiszackk__
__Ruben Hassid__
__@rubenhassid__
The Anatomy of a Claude 4.6 Prompt: 1. Task Define what you want & what success looks like: "I want to [TASK] so that [SUCCESS CRITERIA]." No roles, "act as a senior expert." That era is over. 2. Context Files Upload context files with your expertise and rules: "First, read these files completely before responding: [filename .md] - [what it contains]." AI went from reading a sticky note to an entire book. Stop explaining yourself in the prompt. Put it in files. 3. Reference Show AI exactly what you want. Upload an example. Then give patterns, tone & structure as rules. No "give me something like" & hoping AI figures it out. 4. Brief This is the only part you actually type from scratch. Everything else is files. "Type of output + length. Does NOT sound like. Success means." 5. Rules Context file holds your standards, taste & audience. Prompt: "Read it fully before starting. If you're about to break one of my rules, stop and tell me." 6. Conversation You spent 3 years prompting AI. Now it prompts you Prompt: "DO NOT start executing yet. Ask me clarifying questions (use 'AskUserQuestion' tool) so we can refine the approach together step by step." 7. Plan Claude read your files before writing a single word. Prompt: "Before you write anything, list the 3 rules from my context file that matter most for this task. Then give me your execution plan." 8. Alignment Nothing happens until you both see the same aim. This replaces the old prompting era. Prompt: "Only begin work once we've aligned." Copy the full prompt template + download my personal md. files for Claude here:
__http://__
__how-to-ai.guide__.
__Ruben Hassid__
__@rubenhassid__
If you have access to AI, why can’t you already have 1 million followers?
It’s hard to believe it since:
1. AI is smarter than you.
2. AI produces 1000x different posts in an hour.
3. AI finds and applies any “growth strategy” gurus shared online.
So if AI is so smart, why are you still stuck on social media?
Because AI made what was valuable terribly easy: the effort to start & a reasonable strategy. Both are now worthless and won’t make you a star.
What’s left is taste & consistency.
And it turns out you have none of it.
Clearly not enough to deserve 1,000,000 followers.
For now.
I grew my own account from 8,000 followers (pre-ChatGPT) to 770,000 followers (with ChatGPT first, and now Claude, Grok, and Gemini) in 3 years on Linkedin.
And I did the same with 5 different Linkedin accounts, organically, for a combined 1.56 million followers.
I didn’t include Zane. But I grew her account to 27,000 followers in 4 months.
I will share exactly how I did it, right here, to 300,000 readers opening my emails every week. I expect ~300 of you will actually follow it. So 0.1%.
Make sure to be one of them.
1. Don’t save this guide → apply it right away.
2. And send it to your team’s chat group for accountability.
No one cares about you.
You opened an AI chatbot, and you prompted:
“Hey, this has been my [achievement] lately, make a viral Linkedin post about it.”
Result: 8,000 impressions. +46 followers.
Congrats, you still need 21,739 days to get to 1 million followers.
That’s 60 years.
So how on earth can I have 770,000 followers (and you don’t)?
I might have 700k+ followers, but I (still) never write a personal post. I know no one cares about me. Strangers can’t relate to my achievements.
And that’s how I average roughly 1,000 followers a day:
I gained 344,258 followers in 2025 alone. One account. No ads.
Personal posts won’t make you grow. They make people around you proud: your mom (definitely), your kids (arguably), and most likely your team/boss.
But it won’t make new people excited about your journey or what you have to offer to the world. They don’t want to be part of it. They don’t relate.
Readers only care about themselves.
They read your post alone, facing a screen, with hundreds of life problems to deal with. Kids to pick up. Sick parents to call. Concert tickets to cancel.
Let’s take you as the example (because you are my reader right now).
Imagine if I write here in this article that my Substack made me hundreds of thousands of dollars - do you care? No, you don’t. It does not concern you.
You will ask yourself, ‘Why is he bragging? He wants to sell me something?’ You are not involved. You have other things to care about. Now, if I said, “Here’s how YOU can generate $1,000 with Substack,” you'd suddenly care.
Either I help YOU now, or you won’t care enough to follow me.
Now that you understand no one cares about you, but people want to relate to you so you are useful to them - how can we teach AI this (at scale)?
1. Go to__ Claude__. Open__ Cowork__.
2. Upload your “__about me__” text file.
3. Then copy and paste this prompt:
I want to find the best angle and topic for one LinkedIn post that turns my expertise into something useful, relatable, and 100% about the reader — not me bragging — by asking me clarifying questions about what real problem my audience is struggling with, what piece of my expertise would feel most useful to a stranger, and how to frame it so the reader sees themselves in it so that the post feels like the reader is reading about themselves and gives them a clear reason to follow me.
First, read the uploaded files completely before responding.
DO NOT start executing yet. Instead, ask me clarifying questions (use AskUserQuestion) so we can refine the approach together step by step. 
Only begin work once we've aligned.
It will force you to be USEFUL rather than indulging in being PERSONAL.
We start following useful people to us.
We praise personal posts of people we know.
Do you want to be praised or get new followers?
Abuse me. Break my patterns.
Did you see what I just did here?
I said “Abuse me,” and it instantly stopped your scroll. I broke your pattern. You were peacefully skimming through my newsletter, and your thumb stopped.
You couldn’t believe it. “This guy just wrote “Abuse me”. Wait what?”
It’s called a hook.
You must shock the reader. Break his patterns. Wake him up from his slumber and doomscrolling. They are bored, understimulated. They don’t yet know whether they should care.
But every successful thing you can think of broke a pattern.
Music — Nirvana. Hair metal was king. Then Kurt Cobain showed up with a $20 guitar and killed it in one song.
Painting — Picasso. Everyone was painting what they saw. He painted what they felt. People hated it. Then they couldn’t stop looking.
Device — iPhone. Every phone had a keyboard. Steve Jobs removed it. The entire industry called him insane. Then they all copied him.
Software — Google. Every homepage was a cluttered mess of links and ads. Google gave you a white page and a box.
Thinker — Galileo. Everyone agreed the sun moved around us. He said no. They put him in prison. He was right.
How to hook.
You must break the reader’s pattern to hook us.
What’s considered a hook on Linkedin? It’s exactly 2 sentences of 55 characters before people have to click “… more” to read more.
The hook is the first two lines of text on Linkedin.
If you can get people to click this button, you win.
Yes, social media is this easy.
Here’s how I taught Claude to hook you on my posts.
(No, Claude won’t write the perfect one-shot hook. But it will create 100 variations. Your taste will want to pick up and try one. Then you will post 100 times, and your experience will sharpen your taste.)
1. Go to__ Claude__. Open__ Cowork__.
2. Upload your “__about me__” text file.
3. Use the prompt template (I shared above) to make a solid draft of your post. Then move on to the hook. Copy and paste this prompt (as a follow-up):
Now let's write the hook for this post — the first 2 lines readers see before they have to click "… more" on LinkedIn (roughly 2 short sentences of ~55 characters max each).
The hook's only job is to break the reader's scrolling pattern and make them NEED to click "… more." It should feel like a pattern interrupt — something unexpected, counterintuitive, or so specific the reader thinks "wait, what?"
<rules>
- The hook must be about the READER or a universal tension — never about me.
- It should create an open loop: an unanswered question, a contradiction, or a bold claim the reader can't ignore.
- Avoid anything that sounds like a personal achievement, no emoji openers, no hashtags.
- It should feel like something a friend would text you that makes you reply "wait, explain."
</rules>
<hook_techniques>
1. Contradiction — say something that sounds wrong ("The worst LinkedIn posts get the most followers.")
2. Specific number + unexpected context ("I mass-unfollowed 2,000 people. My engagement tripled.")
3. Direct accusation — call the reader out ("You're writing LinkedIn posts for your mom, not your audience.")
4. Stolen thought — say what the reader secretly thinks but won't say out loud ("You know your LinkedIn posts are boring. So does everyone scrolling past them.")
5. Absurd reframe — take something mundane and make it dramatic ("Your LinkedIn hook has 1.2 seconds to live. Most die instantly.")
</hook_techniques>
Generate 10 hook options organized by technique. For each, write the exact 2 lines as they would appear on LinkedIn (keep it tight — every character counts).
To generate the 10 hook options, generate a AskUserQuestion form.
The key is the conversation you have with Claude (or any other AI).
You found it tiring? You wish to have a faster solution you can copy and paste and instantly get followers?
Good.
It means you won’t make it, and my follower growth is still a competitive advantage. If you can’t pursue the effort, the goal isn’t worth pursuing.
And I am pursuing it.
But if you are also pursuing it, drop your Linkedin profile link in the comments of this blog, and I will send you a connection request.
I usually do it for my paid Substack members (once they join my Slack group, which has 1,108 members). Today - and only today - I will open up to everyone :)
Your media sucks.
I am the Linkedin guy in my surroundings. So people make me read their posts (way too) often. And they all suffer from the same misconceptions & atrocities.
See, the media (image/video/PDF you upload with your text) is the most important part of a post. Why? Because it takes up most of the screen.
The image takes 80% of the screen. The hook 20%. The rest 0%.
It’s like writing a book and not having a proper cover. People buy books because of the cover (79%) or the back cover (82%). So make sure your book gets read - here it’s your Linkedin post.
Let’s start with the biggest misconceptions around Linkedin:
1. “The text is what matters” - no, only the hook and your media matter. A wall of text won’t help you.
2. “Videos are the best formats” - no, people don’t watch many videos on Linkedin because they are supposed to work. Not binge-watch.
3. “I need a strong recognizable brand for my media” - no, the more it looks like an ad, the worse the post performs. Be scrappy.
So what’s the best media?
1. 1080 x 1350 single image.
2. It looks scrappy, unbranded.
3. It’s useful now, and it makes me want to send it to a colleague or bookmark it for later.
This is the opposite of an ad.
Now, can you teach AI this? Yes. Here’s how:
1. Go to Pinterest.
2. Search for your niche + ‘graph’ or ‘cheat sheet’ or ‘infographic’.
3. Then go to__ ____gemini.com____.__
4. Upload the Pinterest image.
5. Copy and paste this prompt:
Extract all of the information from this infographic so another designer could remake it. Your goal is to brief it, as if the designer was Gemini nano-banana (reverse prompting).
Here’s a step-by-step example:
1 - I went to Pinterest and typed: “rare earth infographic”.
2 - I downloaded this one. It looks good, but we must update the style.
Download the image for step 3.
3 - I go to__ ____gemini.com__, upload the image with this prompt:
Extract all of the information from this infographic so another designer could remake it. Your goal is to brief it, as if the designer was Gemini nano-banana (reverse prompting).
Make sure to use the Thinking model (bottom right).
4 - Then go to Pinterest to find a “handwritten style” infographic that feels organic. Your goal is to NOT look like an ad.
I just typed “handwritten style infographic”
5 - I went back to Gemini and followed up with this prompt:
Now remake this infographic with the information, but with this style I just uploaded (copy only the style, your content comes from what you just shared).
6 - Here’s the result. I could have paid $500 for this:
A designer could charge hundreds of dollars for this.
I told you to get 1 million followers on Linkedin, you need AI + taste + consistency. We covered AI & taste. Let’s talk about your consistency now:
You are shamefully inconsistent.
You expect a bodybuilder's body while working out twice a month.
How can you expect to grow seriously on Linkedin (or anywhere else) if you don’t truly focus on it? You need to post more.
Action produces information.
Posting more gives you the keys to post better. The difference between you and me is that I wrote thousands of posts and I learned from them.
Here’s my Notion calendar. I never missed a day in 3 years.
There is no secret AI prompt to make you consistent. If you can’t post once a day and dedicate 30 minutes of your time, you won’t make it. Because others do.
Someone infinitely dumber than you is getting what you want in life by simply being consistent and using AI smartly. Be that person.
(It also means sacrificing a lot of other things you do that don’t help you achieve what you want. Take the bet - trying going all in.)
Maybe one reason you can’t be consistent is that you don’t really want it:
You don’t want 1,000,000 followers.
That’s the truth you don’t want to hear.
I could give you the entire playbook to one million followers, and you won’t follow it. Because deep inside, you don’t know if this is worth pursuing. If this is “really what you want”.
So you’re standing there, waiting for the “right thing to be worth pursuing” to happen to you.
Sure, Linkedin followers are most likely not what you really want. But remember, action produces information. And AI made action incredibly easy. So some people are getting a godlike amount of information from a godlike amount of action.
Don’t stand still.
Pick a target. Pursue it with all of your heart, using AI, and everything you can, to have the unfair advantage you really want.
It’s your only competitive advantage with today’s technology.
Make your advantage so unfair it feels insurmountable to catch up with you.
The last thing you need is another AI newsletter.
You need the one that filters the noise.
I've spent 10,000+ hours testing AI, so you don't have to. 2 articles a week on X. Only what changes how you work. Step by step. Copy, paste, done.
Follow me on X →__@rubenhassid__
__Ruben Hassid__
__@rubenhassid__
How to escape your AI addiction (aka 'performative productivity')
AI didn't make you work less.
It made you work much more (and you're barely more productive).
I met dozens of people this year who told me the same thing. They work past midnight. They ship more than ever. They’ve never felt more productive.
But they’ve never been more stressed. More lost. More exhausted than when they started. And these aren’t lazy people. They adopted AI early, they prompt well, and they do the work of three people on their own.
But is doing more doing better?
Most people using AI are sprinting. Fast. But they sprint in the wrong direction.
At the end of this newsletter, you will be certain how to move in the right direction.
AI doesn’t feel like work.
Every tool before AI felt like work.
Excel felt like work. Email definitely felt like work. Even Google search felt like a task you wanted to finish and move on from. You had to manually scroll, exit the ads, copy and paste the parts that mattered, and avoid fake sponsored articles.
But prompting AI? It feels like chatting with a friend. You type a sentence, something comes back, you tweak it, you send another one. It’s almost fun.
And that’s the trap.
People send a prompt before bed “just to see what comes back.” They prompt during lunch, during meetings, while waiting for a file to load.
It doesn’t register as work in their brain. But they are. All the time.
AI removes the friction of starting. That’s great. But it also removes the friction of stopping. And if stopping feels harder than continuing, you have an addiction.
And Harvard just confirmed it a couple of weeks ago:
Harvard just confirmed it.
Harvard ran an 8-month__ study__ at a 200-person tech company. Nobody forced anyone to use AI. They all chose to. And they all ended up working more.
Three things happened, across the board:
People started doing other people’s jobs because AI made it feel easy. Product managers wrote code. Researchers did engineering tasks. Everyone absorbed work that used to require extra hires.
Work spilled into every break. Every evening. Every “quick 5 minutes.” The conversational style of prompting made it feel casual, so it crept into lunch, into commutes, into the time your brain is supposed to recover.
Everyone multitasks more. Multiple AI threads running at once. Constantly checking outputs. A permanent state of juggling.
And here’s the finding that should make you stop and think: every single person in the study felt more productive. Most felt busier than before.
One engineer said it best (I’m paraphrasing):
“You thought you’d work less because AI makes you faster.
But you don’t work less. You work the same. Or more.”
So why am I writing a newsletter on us being AI-holic?
Because there is a hidden enemy. I call it performative productivity.
(Stick until the end, I will share my remedy)
The real enemy: performative productivity.
It’s 11 pm. You shipped all day. New landing page. Rewrote the sales deck. Drafted a content calendar. Fixed that email sequence. You were ON.
And now you’re sitting there, tired, scrolling your own output, and you can’t name one thing that actually moved you forward. Not one.
That’s the feeling. That’s what I keep hearing from people. Not “I’m lazy.” Not “AI doesn’t work.” It’s “I did so much today, and I have nothing to show for it.”
AI lets you skip the hardest part of work: deciding what’s worth doing in the first place. Before AI, starting something was hard. So you were forced to think about whether it was worth starting. Now? You type a sentence, and something exists. There’s no friction to make you pause and ask: wait, does this actually matter?
So you don’t ask. You just keep going. You ship the deck, the doc, the draft, the redesign. You feel the momentum. And at the end of the week, you realize the momentum was circular. You moved fast. You went nowhere.
Look, I’m all the more for “fast shipping + ‘show don’t tell’ using AI”. It’s magic. But you must fight directionless to make sure you do something worth pursuing.
Here are my 5 rules:
5 rules to fight performative productivity.
Here’s my game plan at my company:
1. Before you prompt, write one sentence about what you’re solving.
If you can’t explain the problem in one sentence, AI will generate noise. And you’ll spend your night editing that noise. One sentence. The problem. Write it down. Then prompt.
For example, “Grow my newsletter 10% faster”.
2. Kill 3 tasks for every 1 task AI helps you add.
AI makes adding work easy. Nobody teaches you to subtract. For every new thing AI helps you ship, ask: what 3 things can I stop doing?
This is taste in action.
Saying no to more things so you can say yes to the right ones.
For example, “[help me here]”.
3. Set a “last prompt” time.
Just like you (should) have a time you stop checking email, set a hard stop for AI. After 8 pm? No prompts.
I know this sounds basic. But I’ve talked to people who prompt at midnight, at 2 am, “just one more.” Break the pattern. Understand that the most productive behavior you can have is to rest.
The work will be there tomorrow. Your brain won’t be if you don’t let it rest.
4. Ask yourself: am I doing more things or the right things?
Are you closer to your actual goal? Or did you just ship a lot of stuff that felt good in the moment? If you can’t answer that honestly, you’re busy. Not productive.
I made a matrix__ here__ to help me stay on the right track.
But feel free to create your own matrix with this template:
5. AI writes v1. But YOU decide if v1 should exist at all.
This is the most important rule.
Just because AI can draft something in 30 seconds doesn’t mean it should be drafted. That’s why anyone can make a Linkedin post in 30 seconds, but very few can grow an account to 10,000 followers in 17 days (__we did__).
Before you ask AI to write it, design it, or build it, ask yourself: does this need to exist? If the answer is “I don’t know, but it’s easy, so why not,” you have a problem.
Don’t sprint before knowing where you're going. Have the right direction first.
But how to start (exactly)?
Open Claude (or whatever you use).
Run these two prompts. In that order. Don’t skip the first.
Prompt 1: Find your real goal.
Audit your productivity against multiple goals at once.
And pick the one goal you (really) want.
I’m going to list everything I’m working on right now. Ask me tough questions to help me figure out which ONE of these actually matters most to my growth in the next 90 days. Challenge me. Don’t let me pick 3. Force me to pick 1.
Here’s my list: [paste your current projects/tasks]
Prompt 2: Audit your week.
Here’s my one goal: [paste it].
Now here’s everything I did this week: [paste your tasks/output]. Score each task: does it directly move me toward that goal, or was it performative productivity? Be brutal. Then give me a plan for next week that only includes what actually matters.
Read the answer. You’ll want to argue with it. That’s how you know it’s working.
Most people use AI to produce more. Start using it to see clearly. That’s the difference between an AI-holic and someone who actually knows what they’re doing.
The last thing you need is another AI newsletter.
You need the one that filters the noise.
I've spent 10,000+ hours testing AI so you don't have to. 2 articles a week on X. Only what changes how you work. Step by step. Copy, paste, done.
Follow me on X →__ @rubenhassid__.
__Nozz__
__@NoahEpstein___
The complete AI services playbook: what to build, how to sell it, and why you're overthinking both
everyone's talking about AI services. "start an AI agency." "build AI agents." "the market is wide open."
they're right about the opportunity. they're wrong about everything else.
the market IS wide open - but not for the reasons people think. it's not because AI is new. it's because the gap between what's possible and what businesses actually understand is the biggest it's ever been.
and almost nobody is positioning themselves correctly to profit from it.
here's the complete playbook - what to build, who to sell it to, how to close, and the frameworks that separate people making $2K/month from people making $20K.
THE GAP NOBODY'S TALKING ABOUT
talk to any business owner over 40 for five minutes. ask them what Claude is. watch the blank stare.
there are roughly 1.3 billion people using free ChatGPT. maybe 15-25 million paying for any AI tool. and 2.5 million using AI for coding.
I'm sorry you've seen this image so much but it shows the stats perfectly.
sounds like a lot until you realize there are 400+ million businesses worldwide. the vast majority haven't touched AI in any meaningful way. they've heard about it. maybe tried ChatGPT once to write a birthday message. that's it.
this is what i call the intelligence gap - the disconnect between what businesses think they need and what actually solves their expensive problems.
here's why this matters for you: the business owner isn't going to set this up themselves. they're not going to watch a YouTube tutorial. they're not going to read documentation. they need someone to do it for them, show them the value, and maintain it.
that someone is you.
but here's where most people get it wrong: they always default to chasing tech companies. they cold DM startup founders on twitter. they try to sell AI to people who already understand AI.
that's the most competitive, lowest-margin market you could possibly choose.
the real money is in boring industries.
WHY BORING INDUSTRIES PAY 10X MORE
i'm sure you've seen it everywhere. everyone from Mark Cuban to every AI influencer on your timeline is preaching "go after boring businesses." it's become the most repeated advice in the space.
and yet almost nobody is actually doing it.
they post about it. they agree with it. then they go right back to cold DMing tech founders and fighting over the same saturated market. the advice is everywhere but the execution is almost nonexistent. that's the opportunity.
Accounting firms. dental practices. HVAC companies. real estate offices. private equity firms. insurance agencies.
these businesses have three things in common:
they make good money and aren't price-sensitive on solutions that work. a contractor who closes one extra job per month from faster lead response doesn't blink at a $500/month retainer. that's a 10-20x ROI.
they have minimal competition for AI services. nobody is walking into dental offices offering automation. they're doing it through terrible cold outreach that gets ignored. and there are so many of these businesses that even if someone else starts, the market is nowhere close to saturated.
they refer like crazy. boring industries are tight-knit. one good implementation for a law firm partner gets you introduced to three more. same workflow, different client, same price. build once, sell six times.
stop chasing sexy. start chasing profitable.
BUILDING IS NOT THE CONSTRAINT ANYMORE. SELLING IS.
here's what nobody tells you: the actual building part has never been easier. everyone obsesses over the technical side when the real bottleneck is finding clients and closing deals.
but you still need to be able to build. the good news is that with AI, this is genuinely simple now.
here's the process:
open Claude Desktop or Claude Code. describe the idea. add the customer's context - their tech stack, notes on how their current flow works, what systems they use, what the pain points are. the more context you give, the better the output.
Claude Code will build the automation logic for you. it handles the heavy lifting. but here's the key - you need it to know what should be a coded automation vs what should be an n8n workflow. i have a Claude MD file pinned in my free Skool community (__https://www.skool.com/agent-n__) that handles exactly this. it tells Claude Code what should be built as a direct automation and what should be routed to n8n as a workflow. this decision happens automatically through Claude Code when you have the right instructions set up.
from there, Synta (__https://synta.io__) helps you (Claude Code) create and deploy the n8n workflows. it plans, builds, validates, and tests the workflow for you. no PhD required. no spending weeks learning node configurations.
the entire build process for most client projects: describe the problem, feed in the context, let the tools do the technical work, review and ship.
that's it. the constraint was never "can i build this." the constraint is "can i find the person willing to pay for it and communicate the value." that's where the rest of this playbook comes in.
WHAT TO BUILD: 4 SERVICE MODELS THAT ACTUALLY WORK
1) Speed-to-Lead Agents ($1,500-$5,000 setup + $300-$1,000/month)
this is the easiest AI service to sell because the problem is measurable.
a speed-to-lead agent responds to new leads instantly, 24/7, without human intervention. someone submits a form, the agent responds within seconds via text or email, asks qualifying questions, captures key information, and books a meeting. the business owner wakes up to qualified appointments on their calendar instead of a list of cold leads going cold.
the data backs this up. responding in 5 minutes vs 30 minutes is a massive difference in qualification rates. most businesses take hours. sometimes days. that's money they're leaving on the table every single day.
the important positioning here: you're not replacing anyone. you're holding the lead warm until the human can engage. the receptionist isn't losing her job. she's being freed up to handle the patients who actually show up instead of playing phone tag with people who filled out a form at 11pm.
that framing, employee amplification not replacement, is the difference between a "maybe" and a signed contract. every time.
the tech stack is simple. an automation platform handles the workflow. a messaging service sends the texts. an AI model generates personalized responses. a scheduling tool books the meetings. total monthly cost to run: $20-50 for most small business volumes. you charge $500/month. the math is obvious.
build time: a few hours. value delivered: years of faster lead conversion.
2) Workflow Automation ($2,000-$5,000 per implementation)
think about what a business does every day that's repetitive, manual, and boring.
email follow-ups that nobody sends on time. proposal generation that takes three hours when it should take minutes. data entry between systems that don't talk to each other. report generation that someone spends half a day on every week.
you automate one of these workflows. that's the service.
a real example without exaggeration: automating an outreach flow for a services business. leads come in, the system qualifies them, personalizes the follow-up based on what they asked about, sends it, and logs everything to the CRM. previously this was someone's entire morning. now it runs in the background.
the key insight most people miss: make the value visible. if you build an automation that runs invisibly in the background, the client forgets it exists and questions the retainer at month three. build a simple dashboard or front-end that shows them what's happening. leads processed, emails sent, time saved. when they can SEE the value, they never cancel.
throw in a monthly maintenance package for $99-250/month. you fix things when they break, optimize over time, and the recurring revenue compounds.
3) AI Workshops and Training ($500-$5,000 per session)
most companies have bought AI licenses already. ChatGPT Enterprise, Claude Team, whatever. nobody knows how to use them. the tools sit there collecting dust while leadership wonders where the ROI went.
you solve that in 90 minutes.
but here's the thing. generic "intro to AI" workshops are worthless. everyone can Google "how to use ChatGPT." the premium is in specificity.
"AI for Real Estate Agents" commands a completely different price than "Introduction to AI Tools." "Claude for Law Firm Associates" is a $3,000 session. "How to Use AI" is a free YouTube video.
the format that works: start with quick wins they can use that day. then hands-on building where everyone creates one workflow together. then department-specific use cases. end with an implementation plan.
what you're actually selling isn't AI knowledge. it's context. you understand their industry, their pain points, their daily workflow. you're translating technology into their language. that's the skill that matters more than any technical ability.
communication is the moat now. AI is commoditizing technical skills. the person who can explain this to a 55-year-old insurance broker is going to make more money than the person who can build the most sophisticated agent.
4) Productized Automation (Recurring Revenue)
this is how you stop trading time for money.
pick one workflow. automate it. sell it to everyone in that niche.
the formula: find a painful, repetitive task that every business in a niche does. build the automation once. package it as a done-for-you service with monthly maintenance.
some examples that make the model clear:
a podcast repurposing service. client uploads raw episode. the system creates show notes, social posts, short-form clip ideas, email newsletter draft, and a blog post. delivered within 24 hours. charge $297/month. you build the system once. it runs for every client.
a real estate listing service. agent adds a new property. the system generates MLS descriptions, social posts, email to the buyer list, and a virtual tour script. charge $197/month. the workflow doesn't change between agents.
your income scales without your time scaling with it. that's the entire point.
HOW TO SELL IT: 7 METHODS THAT DON'T REQUIRE A FOLLOWING
1) Host an AI Meetup in Your City 
most of you (and myself included) will say fuck that but it can be an incredible play hear me out.
highest-leverage play nobody's doing.
business owners are curious about AI but overwhelmed. they don't know who to trust. when you host the meetup, you're automatically positioned as the person who knows.
find a free venue. library, coworking space, coffee shop with a back room. create a simple event page. post in local business groups and LinkedIn. keep the format simple: a 20-minute presentation on how local businesses are using AI right now, followed by Q&A.
you don't need to be the world's leading AI expert. you need to know more than the people in the room. that bar is much lower than you think.
the key move: don't just present. show something running live. open your laptop, show a workflow executing in real time, show a lead come in and get responded to automatically. when they can SEE the value, everything changes.
collect emails at the door. follow up within 24 hours. that's your pipeline.
2) Direct Outreach to Local Businesses
old school. still works.
walk into 10 local businesses this week. dentists, real estate offices, contractors, law firms. or send 20 LinkedIn messages per day to business owners with 10-50 employees in your area.
the pitch is not "do you want AI?" the pitch is a question:
"what's the most expensive bottleneck in your day-to-day operations?"
that's it. start a conversation about their problem, not your solution. the people who respond are self-selecting. they already know something is broken.
don't pitch in the first message. understand their problem first. then when you propose a solution, it's specific to what they told you. that's how you close at 3-5x the rate of people who lead with "i build AI automations."
3) The Speed Test (Best for Speed-to-Lead Sales)
this is the most effective cold outreach strategy for selling lead response systems.
pick a niche. Google businesses in your area. find ones with contact forms on their website. submit a test inquiry. track how long they take to respond.
most will take hours. many will take days. some will never respond at all.
now you have data. you email them:
"i submitted an inquiry through your website 3 days ago. still haven't heard back. how many leads do you think you're losing? i build systems that respond in under 60 seconds, 24/7."
that's not a cold pitch. that's a diagnosis. you identified a problem, quantified it, and offered a solution. completely different conversation.
4) Free Audits That Become Paid Engagements
you already know business owners. friends, family, former coworkers, people from the gym.
offer a free 20-minute workflow audit. "i'll look at how you're doing things and tell you what could be automated. no charge, i'm building my portfolio."
free work? yes. but here's what happens: you get real practice. they get real value. they tell their friends. word of mouth kicks in.
the audit IS the sales call. you're not doing charity, you're doing discovery. by the end of the audit, you understand their problems better than they do. the proposal writes itself.
after you have a few case studies, start charging for the audits. the audit itself becomes a product.
5) Partner with Agencies and Consultants
other service providers already have the clients you want.
marketing agencies, business coaches, accountants, web developers. they work with business owners every day. many of them are getting asked about AI and have no idea what to say.
reach out: "i specialize in AI automation for small businesses. if any of your clients ask about AI, i'd love to be your go-to referral. happy to give you a cut of any deals."
now you have a sales team without hiring anyone. and in boring industries where everyone knows everyone, one good partnership generates a steady pipeline.
6) Coworking Space Office Hours
find a local coworking space. offer to host free weekly "AI Office Hours" for their members.
two hours every week. members drop in with questions. you help them solve problems on the spot.
what you get: credibility (you're the resident AI expert), warm leads (people who already trust you), and content ideas (every question someone asks is a potential post or article).
most coworking spaces will say yes because it adds value for their members. you're offering to help for free. the paying clients come naturally.
7) Document Everything on Social Media
every time you help someone, document it.
"automated appointment reminders for a dental practice. took 2 hours to set up. runs on autopilot now."
"built a lead response system for a contractor. they were losing leads because they couldn't answer the phone on job sites. now every lead gets a response in under 60 seconds."
you don't need a huge following. you need consistency. post 3-5 times per week for 90 days. mix wins with educational content. the goal isn't to go viral. the goal is to stay top of mind so when someone thinks "i need help with AI," they think of you.
THE FRAMEWORKS THAT ACTUALLY CLOSE DEALS
everything above is tactics. here's the thinking that makes the tactics work.
sell the problem, not the solution. nobody cares about your tech stack. nobody cares that you use n8n or make or zapier. they care that their receptionist is overwhelmed, their leads go cold, and their proposals take too long. diagnose the problem. quantify the cost. then present the fix. the tool is irrelevant.
employee amplification, not replacement. the moment you say "this replaces your admin," the conversation is over. the business owner likes their admin. they don't want to fire people. say "this makes your admin 3x more productive" and the whole energy shifts. same outcome, completely different framing, dramatically higher close rate.
make the value visible. if they can't see it working, it doesn't count. build simple interfaces. show dashboards with real numbers. let them click a button and watch something happen. invisible automation gets cancelled. visible automation gets renewed and referred.
speed to learning over perfection. don't spend three weeks building the perfect system before you have a client. ship the simplest version that solves the problem. get real feedback. iterate. you earn the right to build complex systems by proving you can deliver simple ones first.
communication is the competitive advantage. as AI commoditizes the technical work, the person who can translate technology into business outcomes wins. the person who can sit across from a business owner and make them feel understood, that's the moat. not your code. not your automations. your ability to listen, diagnose, and explain.
THE BOTTOM LINE
pick one service model from this list. pick one sales method. do it consistently for 30 days. then add another.
you don't need a marketing budget. you don't need a massive following. you don't need to be a technical genius.
you need to find people with expensive problems, show them you can fix it, and make the value visible.
the AI services market is the most accessible opportunity most people will see in their careers. the gap between early adopters and everyone else is massive. and it's not closing anytime soon.
the only question is whether you'll go get it.
If you gained some value, drop a share or follow or non if you really feel.
__Iseunife The First__
__@Shawnife__
How to Use Claude in Excel (And Actually Save Time)
Most of what takes you two hours in Excel should take twenty minutes. That gap is the problem Claude  now fixes.
A formula that should take five minutes takes twenty. A messy data export eats up half your morning. A report that needs updating every week becomes the task you dread.
This guide is practical. Just what Claude can do inside Excel, how to ask it the right way, and where it actually saves you time.
First: What Is Claude in Excel?
Claude in Excel is an official add-in from Anthropic that sits as a sidebar inside Microsoft Excel. You open it, type what you need, and Claude reads your actual workbook and responds based on what's in it.
It's not giving you generic advice. It's looking at your sheet, your formulas, your specific cells, and working from there. Every change it suggests gets highlighted so you can see exactly what moved before you accept it.
Getting Set Up (Takes Under 5 Minutes)
What you need:
* Microsoft Excel (desktop version)
* A Claude Pro, Max, Team, or Enterprise plan ($20/month and above)
* Free plan users don't have access to this add-in
How to install:
1. Open Excel
2. Go to Home > Add-ins (Windows) or Tools > Add-ins (Mac)
3. Search for "Claude by Anthropic for Excel" in Microsoft AppSource
4. Click Install
5. Sign in with your Claude account
6. Claude will appear as a sidebar panel in Excel
Shortcut to open it anytime:
* Windows: Ctrl + Alt + C
* Mac: Ctrl + Option + C
That's it. You're in.
What Claude Actually Does in Excel
Before getting into specific tasks, here's what Claude can do at a high level:
* Read your entire workbook including multiple tabs and nested formulas
* Explain what formulas do in plain language with cell-level references
* Make changes while keeping all formula dependencies intact
* Highlight every cell it touches so you see what changed
* Trace errors back to their source
* Upload external files like PDFs and CSVs and pull data from them into your sheet
* Connect to external data sources like FactSet, PitchBook, and LSEG if you have those connectors enabled
Now, here's how to use it for your day-to-day
1. Formulas and Calculations
This is where Claude saves the most time for most people.
Understanding formulas you didn't write
You open someone else's workbook and there's a formula three lines long. Instead of tracing through it manually, click the cell and ask Claude:
* "Explain what this formula in C14 does in plain English"
* "Trace this formula back to its source inputs"
* "Why is this SUMIF returning the wrong result?"
* "What assumptions are driving the revenue forecast in column F?"
Claude will walk you through each part of the logic and point to the exact cells involved.
Writing formulas faster
Instead of looking up syntax, just describe what you want:
* "Write a formula that finds the average sales for customers in the East region only"
* "I need a formula that returns 'Overdue' if the date in column D is more than 30 days ago"
* "Create a formula that pulls the last non-empty value in column B"
Claude writes it, places it, and explains what it's doing.
Scenario analysis
This is genuinely useful for anyone who does financial modelling or planning:
* "What happens to the totals in column H if I change the growth rate in B2 from 8% to 5%?"
* "Recalculate these projections with a 10% decrease in Q2 revenue"
* "Show me what the net income looks like if operating costs go up by 15%"
Claude traces the dependencies, makes the changes, highlights what moved, and tells you exactly what shifted and why. Nothing breaks because it preserves all the formula relationships.
2. Data Cleaning and Organising
If you've ever received a data export that looked like it was designed to waste your time, this section is for you.
Common data messes Claude handles:
* Dates in five different formats; ask Claude to standardise them
* Names split across two columns that should be one, or combined in one that should be split
* Duplicates hiding in plain sight
* Inconsistent text like "UK", "U.K.", and "United Kingdom" all meaning the same thing
* Blank rows scattered throughout
* Numbers stored as text (the classic)
Just tell Claude what you're working with:
* "Clean up the date column. There are at least three different formats being used"
* "Merge the First Name and Last Name columns into one column called Full Name"
* "Find and flag all duplicate entries based on the email column"
* "Standardise the country names in column C so they're all consistent"
* "Remove all blank rows from this sheet"
Claude highlights every cell it changes so you can review before moving on. You stay in control.
Pulling data from a PDF or CSV into your sheet
This is one of the most underrated features. You receive a PDF report. The data you need is locked inside it. Normally you'd retype it or pay for a converter. With Claude, you upload the file directly into the chat sidebar and ask it to pull the data into your sheet.
* "I've uploaded a PDF with our Q4 sales data. Pull the figures into column B starting from row 2"
* "Here's a CSV export from our CRM. Clean it and paste it into this sheet in the same format as the existing data"
3. Charts and Visualisations
Claude can create charts from your data without you having to manually select ranges, pick chart types, or format anything.
Prompts that work:
* "Create a bar chart showing monthly revenue from this table"
* "Make a line chart comparing sales in 2024 vs 2025 using columns B and C"
* "Build a chart that shows the top 10 customers by spend"
* "Create a pie chart of expenses by category using the data in this sheet"
You can also ask Claude to recommend the right chart type if you're unsure:
* "What's the best way to visualise this data? I want to show trends over time and compare two teams"
Claude will tell you which chart makes sense for what you're trying to show, build it, and reference exactly which cells it pulled from. You can then adjust styling as you normally would.
4. Reports and Summaries
If you produce regular reports from Excel data, this is the feature that will save you the most time week to week.
Summarising what's in a sheet
Instead of reading through everything yourself first:
* "Summarise what this sheet is showing me. What are the key numbers I should pay attention to?"
* "Give me a plain-English overview of this financial model and what it's projecting"
* "What are the top three things this data is telling me?"
Claude reads the whole workbook and gives you a quick brief, with cell references so you know exactly where each number came from.
Building reports from data
* "Create a summary table showing total sales by region and by quarter"
* "Build a monthly performance summary using this data. I want revenue, costs, and net profit per month in a clean table"
* "I need an executive summary section at the top of this sheet. Pull the key figures and write two sentences interpreting the results"
Updating recurring reports
If you have a weekly or monthly report template, you don't need to manually update every figure. Open the template, add the new data, and ask Claude:
* "I've added this month's data in the new tab. Update all the figures in the Summary tab to reflect the latest numbers"
* "The data in columns D through H has been updated. Refresh the summary table at the top of this sheet"
5. Automating Repetitive Tasks
Anything you do the same way every week is worth asking Claude to help you speed up or eliminate.
Error checking
Instead of hunting through a large sheet manually:
* "Find all__ #REF__ and__ #VALUE__ errors in this workbook and tell me what's causing them"
* "Are there any formulas in this sheet that might be returning incorrect results? Check the logic"
* "Trace why cell G22 is showing an error"
Claude finds the issue, explains what broke, and suggests the fix. It won't just tell you something is wrong, it tells you why and shows you the corrected formula.
Repetitive formatting and structure
* "Apply consistent formatting to all the data tables in this workbook"
* "Freeze the top row and bold all headers in every sheet"
* "Convert all the figures in column E from dollars to thousands"
Building templates for future use
* "Build me a monthly budget tracker template with sections for income, fixed costs, variable costs, and a running total"
* "Create a project tracker with columns for task, owner, due date, status, and completion percentage"
* "Set up a sales pipeline template that automatically calculates weighted pipeline value based on the probability column"
How to Prompt Claude Well Inside Excel
Claude in Excel works best when your prompts are specific. Here's the difference:
Too vague: "Fix my formula"
Better: "The formula in cell D8 is returning the wrong total. It should be summing all rows where column A says 'Confirmed' but I think it's including other values too. Can you check and fix it?"
A few things that help:
* Reference specific cells — say "cell D8" not "that formula"
* Say what you expect — "it should return the total for confirmed orders only"
* Mention what's wrong — "it's returning a number that's too high" gives Claude context to work from
* One task at a time — Claude handles complex requests, but breaking things into steps gives you more control over the results
What Claude in Excel Cannot Do (Be Aware of This)
Claude is genuinely useful, but there are real limits:
* No macros or VBA — it cannot write or run VBA code within the add-in
* No Power Query or Power Pivot — these stay manual for now
* Always verify outputs — especially for financial models, formulas that feed into important decisions, or anything that goes to a client. Claude is good, not infallible
* Prompt injection risk — if you open a spreadsheet you downloaded from the internet or received from an unknown source, be careful. Hidden instructions can sometimes be embedded in cells or formulas that manipulate what Claude does. Stick to files you trust
* Large workbooks can slow it down — very large spreadsheets with thousands of rows across many tabs may take longer to process
When Is Claude Actually Worth Using?
Claude in Excel earns its time when:
* You're working with someone else's spreadsheet and need to understand it fast
* You have messy data that would take hours to clean manually
* You need a formula and can't quite get the syntax right
* You're doing scenario analysis and want to see impact quickly
* You produce the same report every week and want to cut the time in half
It's less useful when:
* You're building something from scratch that you know exactly how to build
* The task is straightforward and faster to do manually
* You need VBA or Power Query
The honest answer is for most regular Excel users, Claude saves between one and three hours a week. If your time has any value at all, that math works.
Quick Reference: Prompts to Save
I have created a short list of copy-paste prompts you can use right away:
Understanding your data: "Summarise what this workbook is doing and what the key outputs are"
Formulas: "Explain what the formula in [cell] does in plain English" "Write a formula that [describe what you need]"
Cleaning: "Clean up the [column name] column. There are inconsistencies in formatting" "Find and remove all duplicates based on the [column name] column"
Errors: "Find all errors in this workbook and explain what's causing them"
Charts: "Create a [chart type] showing [what you want to show] from this data"
Reports: "Build a summary table showing [metric] by [category] using this data"
Updates: "I've added new data to [tab name]. Update the summary in [tab name] to reflect it"
I hope you find this guide useful!
__Corey Ganim__
__@coreyganim__
OpenClaw Masterclass for Beginners (full tutorial)
Most people use AI like a chatbot.
Open a browser, ask a question, copy-paste the answer somewhere else.
But what if your AI could actually do things?
Send emails, update your calendar, research someone before a meeting, draft content, manage your tasks.
All from a text message on your phone. 
That's what OpenClaw does. It turns AI into a personal assistant you can message from anywhere, with real tool access, not just chat.
I've been running it for months. Here's everything you need to know.
PS: I'm hosting  a workshop called 48 Hour AI in Nashville. Two days. 25 business owners. You leave with a fully installed AI operating system, custom-built for your business.
__Details and application here.__
-----------------------------------------
What Is OpenClaw (And Why Should You Care)?
OpenClaw is a free, open-source tool that turns Claude into a personal AI assistant you can message from anywhere.
Here's the simple version: You install OpenClaw on your computer (or a server). It connects to your messaging apps like WhatsApp, Telegram, Discord, iMessage, or Signal.
Then you can text your AI assistant just like you'd text a friend, and it responds with real capabilities, not just chat.
Why this matters for non-technical users:
Most AI tools live in a browser tab. You have to go to them. OpenClaw flips that. Your AI comes to you, wherever you already are.
Waiting in line at the grocery store? Text your assistant to check your calendar and reschedule a meeting.
Driving home? Send a voice note asking it to draft an email to a client.
Lying in bed before sleep? Ask it to research tomorrow's meeting attendees and send you a briefing.
The AI becomes ambient. It's just there, ready to help, in the apps you already use every day.
Key things that make OpenClaw different:
1. Self-hosted means you own your data. Unlike cloud AI services, OpenClaw runs on your own computer. Your conversations, files, and business data never leave your control. For anyone handling sensitive client information or proprietary business data, this matters.
2. Multi-channel means one assistant, many apps. Connect WhatsApp AND Telegram AND Discord AND iMessage all at once. Same assistant, same memory, accessible from whatever app you prefer at that moment.
3. Tool access means it can actually do things. Regular AI can only talk. OpenClaw can browse the web, run commands, manage files, control apps, send messages, and interact with dozens of other tools. It's the difference between an advisor and an employee.
4. Open source means no vendor lock-in. It's free to use, the code is public, and there's an active community building new features and integrations. You're not dependent on one company's roadmap or pricing changes.
How to Set It Up (The Non-Technical Version)
I'm going to be honest: setting up OpenClaw requires some comfort with your computer's terminal (that black window where you type commands). But it's not as scary as it sounds, and I'll walk you through exactly what to do.
What you need before starting:
* A Mac or Windows computer (or Linux if you're technical)
* Node.js version 22 or newer (free software, 2-minute install from__ ____nodejs.org__)
* An API key from Anthropic (the company that makes Claude)
Getting your Anthropic API key:
1. Go to__ ____console.anthropic.com__ and create an account
2. Add a payment method (you'll pay per use, typically $5-20/month for normal usage)
3. Create an API key and copy it somewhere safe
Installing OpenClaw:
Open your terminal (on Mac, search for "Terminal" in Spotlight) and type:
npm install -g @openclaw/openclaw
Then run the setup wizard:
openclaw setup
The wizard walks you through everything: entering your API key, choosing which messaging apps to connect, and setting basic preferences.
Finally, start the Gateway:
openclaw gateway
That's it. OpenClaw is now running on your computer.
Connecting your first messaging app:
For most people, I recommend starting with Telegram. Here's why:
* Setup takes 2 minutes (just create a bot and paste the token)
* No phone number linking or QR code scanning
* Works immediately
* Great for testing before connecting your main apps
WhatsApp is the most popular choice long-term, but it requires scanning a QR code to link your account, similar to WhatsApp Web. The setup wizard guides you through this.
Security: Keeping Your AI Assistant Safe
This is important. You're giving an AI assistant real access to your accounts and data. Here's how to do it safely.
Rule 1: Always use authentication.
OpenClaw requires a password or token by default. Never disable this. It prevents random people from sending commands to your assistant.
Rule 2: Restrict who can message your bot.
Out of the box, your assistant will respond to anyone who messages it. That's dangerous. Lock it down to only accept messages from your own phone number or specific trusted contacts.
The setup wizard helps you configure this, but the concept is simple: create an "allowlist" of phone numbers or usernames that are permitted to interact with your assistant.
Rule 3: Keep it local by default.
OpenClaw only listens on your local computer by default. It's not exposed to the internet. If you want to access it remotely (like from your phone when you're away from home), use a secure method like Tailscale (a free, easy VPN service) rather than opening ports directly.
Rule 4: Run security audits regularly.
OpenClaw has a built-in command that checks for common security issues:
openclaw security audit
Run this after any configuration changes. It flags problems and can automatically fix many of them.
Rule 5: Treat it as personal, not shared.
OpenClaw is designed for one person (or one trusted household/team). Don't share access with people you don't fully trust. Each person who can message your assistant has the same level of access you do.
What Can OpenClaw Actually Do?
Once running, your AI assistant gains serious capabilities. Here's a breakdown:
1. Respond across all your messaging apps
WhatsApp, Telegram, Discord, iMessage, Signal, Slack, Google Chat, and more. You message from any app, and the assistant responds in that same app. No app switching required.
This alone is valuable. Instead of opening a browser and going to Claude, you just text. The friction disappears.
2. Browse the web and do research
Your assistant can open websites, read content, search Google, and compile information. Need to know what a company does before a sales call? Ask your assistant. Want a summary of the latest news on a topic? Text it.
3. Manage files and documents
Create documents, organize folders, convert file formats, compress images. Your assistant has access to your filesystem (within boundaries you set) and can manipulate files on your behalf.
4. Control your browser
Need to fill out a form? Navigate a complex website? Take screenshots of a page? Your assistant can control a web browser, seeing what's on screen and interacting with it just like you would.
5. Connect to your apps through "Skills"
Skills are pre-built instruction sets that teach your assistant how to use specific tools. There's a whole marketplace of community-created skills for things like:
* Google Workspace (Gmail, Calendar, Drive, Docs, Sheets)
* Notion
* Todoist
* Slack
* Image generation
* Voice calls
* And dozens more
Installing a skill is one command. Once installed, your assistant knows how to use that tool.
6. Run on a schedule
Set up automated tasks that run at specific times. Every morning at 6am, have your assistant check your calendar, summarize today's meetings, and send you a briefing. Every Friday at 5pm, have it compile a weekly summary of completed tasks.
7. Connect to your phone
This one is powerful. You can install a companion app on your iPhone or Android that links to your OpenClaw setup. Your assistant can then:
* Take photos using your phone's camera
* Capture screenshots of your phone
* Send push notifications
* Get your current location
* Run commands on your mobile device
This turns your phone into an extension of your AI assistant.
Real Use Cases From My Workflow
Theory is nice, but here's what I actually use OpenClaw for every single day:
1. Automatic meeting prep
I have a lot of calls with people I've never spoken to before. Before OpenClaw, I'd scramble to research them 5 minutes before the call, or just wing it.
Now, my assistant automatically monitors my calendar. When it sees a call with someone new (someone I haven't met before), it:
* Looks up their LinkedIn profile
* Researches their company
* Finds any recent news or content they've published
* Checks if we have any mutual connections
* Compiles everything into a one-page briefing document
* Saves it to my Google Drive
* Sends me a notification with the link
All of this happens automatically, 30 minutes before the call. I walk into every meeting prepared.
2. Content creation from my phone
I publish daily content, which means I'm always writing. With OpenClaw, I can text something like:
"Write an X article about how to set up Claude Cowork for beginners"
My assistant then:
* Researches the topic (checks official docs, recent articles, common questions)
* Writes a full 800-1000 word article in my voice
* Creates multiple headline options
* Generates thumbnail images
* Uploads everything to Google Drive
* Sends me links to review
I do a quick edit, and it's ready to publish. What used to take 2-3 hours now takes 20 minutes of review and polish.
3. Email and task triage
Every morning, my assistant pulls my tasks that are due today and categorizes them:
* Tasks it can complete for me (like drafting content)
* Tasks it can help with (like research or prep work)
* Tasks that require my direct involvement (like calls or decisions)
It then drafts what it can and sends me a summary. I review, approve, and move on. My mornings are now about reviewing AI-completed work rather than starting everything from scratch.
4. Podcast guest outreach
I host a podcast and constantly need to find and pitch potential guests. I give my assistant a list of YouTube channels or podcasts in my niche. It:
* Researches each creator
* Finds their contact information (email, LinkedIn, etc.)
* Watches/reads their recent content to understand their angle
* Writes personalized pitch emails using my proven template
* Saves each pitch as a Gmail draft ready to send
I review the drafts, make any tweaks, and hit send. Ten personalized pitches that would take me hours now take 15 minutes of review time.
5. Voice calls and follow-ups
Through Twilio integration, my assistant can actually make phone calls. I've used this for:
* Automated appointment reminders to clients
* Follow-up calls after someone downloads a lead magnet
* Quick voice check-ins that would otherwise fall through the cracks
The assistant uses text-to-speech for outbound messages and can transcribe responses.
6. Quick research on the go
This happens multiple times a day. I'm in a conversation and need to reference something. Instead of stopping to look it up, I text my assistant:
"What's the pricing for Notion's team plan?" "Find me the episode number where we discussed X topic" "What's [person's name]'s company and role?"
I get answers in seconds without breaking my flow.
Common Questions
Do I need to keep my computer running?
Yes, if you're running OpenClaw on your laptop or desktop. The Gateway needs to be running to receive and respond to messages. Most people either:
* Run it on a Mac Mini or old laptop that stays on
* Run it on a small cloud server (DigitalOcean, etc.) for $5-10/month
* Use a Raspberry Pi
If your computer sleeps, you won't get responses until it wakes up.
How much does it cost?
OpenClaw itself is free. You pay for:
* Anthropic API usage (typically $5-20/month for normal use)
* Optionally, a server if you don't want to run it on your own computer
Is it hard to maintain?
Honestly, once set up, it mostly just works. Updates are one command. The community is active and helpful if you hit issues.
Can I use it with ChatGPT instead of Claude?
Yes. OpenClaw supports multiple AI providers including OpenAI, Google's Gemini, and others. Most people use Claude because it's best for tool use and long-context tasks, but you have options.
What if I break something?
OpenClaw has good defaults and safety guardrails. The security audit command catches most issues. And since it's self-hosted, you can always reset to a clean state if needed.
The Bottom Line
OpenClaw turns AI from a chat interface into a true AI operating system.
Instead of going to AI, AI comes to you. Instead of copy-pasting between apps, your assistant works across all of them. Instead of just getting answers, you get actions completed.
The setup requires some technical comfort. It's not a one-click install. But for anyone who spends hours a day on repetitive knowledge work, the investment pays off quickly.
I've saved 10+ hours per week since implementing my OpenClaw workflows. Not because the AI is magic, but because it removes all the friction between "I need something done" and "it's done."
Resources:
* Official Docs:__ ____https://docs.openclaw.ai__
* GitHub:__ https://github.com/openclaw/openclaw__
* Community Skills:__ ____https://clawhub.com__
* Community Discord:__ https://discord.gg/openclaw__
And if you want a fully installed AI operating system (including OpenClaw) then you'll love my in-person 48 Hour AI workshop. April 24-25 in Nashville, TN.
__cogsec__
__@affaanmustafa__
The Longform Guide to Everything Claude Code
In "The Shorthand Guide to Everything Claude Code", I covered the foundational setup: skills and commands, hooks, subagents, MCPs, plugins, and the configuration patterns that form the backbone of an effective Claude Code workflow. Its a setup guide and the base infrastructure.
cogsec
@affaanmustafa
·
__Jan 17__
The Shorthand Guide to Everything Claude Code
Here's my complete setup after 10 months of daily use: skills, hooks, subagents, MCPs, plugins, and what actually works. Been an avid Claude Code user since the experimental rollout in Feb, and won...
This longform guide goes the techniques that separate productive sessions from wasteful ones. If you haven't read the__ Shorthand Guide__, go back and set up your configs first. What follows assumes you have skills, agents, hooks, and MCPs already configured and working.
The themes here: token economics, memory persistence, verification patterns, parallelization strategies, and the compound effects of building reusable workflows. These are the patterns I've refined over 10+ months of daily use that make the difference between being plagued by context rot within the first hour, versus maintaining productive sessions for hours.
Everything covered in the shorthand and longform articles are available on github here:__ everything-claude-code__
Context & Memory Management
For sharing memory across sessions, a skill or command that summarizes and checks in on progress then saves to a `.tmp` file in your `.claude` folder and appends to it until the end of your session is the best bet. The next day it can use that as context and pick up where you left off, create a new file for each session so you don't pollute old context into new work. Eventually you'll have a big folder of these session logs - just back it up somewhere meaningful or prune the session conversations you don't need.
Claude creates a file summarizing current state. Review it, ask for edits if needed, then start fresh. For the new conversation, just provide the file path. Particularly useful when you're hitting context limits and need to continue complex work. These files should contain - what approaches worked (verifiably with evidence), which approaches that were attempted did not work, which approaches have not been attempted and what's left to do.
Example of session storage -> __ https://github.com/affaan-m/everything-claude-code/tree/main/examples/sessions__
Clearing Context Strategically:
Once you have your plan set and context cleared (default option in plan mode in claude code now), you can work from the plan. This is useful when you've accumulated a lot of exploration context that's no longer relevant to execution. For strategic compacting, disable auto compact. Manually compact at logical intervals or create a skill that does so for you or suggests upon some defined criteria.
__Strategic Compact Skill__ (Direct Link):
(Embedded for quick reference)
bash
#!/bin/bash
# Strategic Compact Suggester
# Runs on PreToolUse to suggest manual compaction at logical intervals
#
# Why manual over auto-compact:
# - Auto-compact happens at arbitrary points, often mid-task
# - Strategic compacting preserves context through logical phases
# - Compact after exploration, before execution
# - Compact after completing a milestone, before starting next
COUNTER_FILE="/tmp/claude-tool-count-$$"
THRESHOLD=${COMPACT_THRESHOLD:-50}
# Initialize or increment counter
if [ -f "$COUNTER_FILE" ]; then
  count=$(cat "$COUNTER_FILE")
  count=$((count + 1))
  echo "$count" > "$COUNTER_FILE"
else
  echo "1" > "$COUNTER_FILE"
  count=1
fi
# Suggest compact after threshold tool calls
if [ "$count" -eq "$THRESHOLD" ]; then
  echo "[StrategicCompact] $THRESHOLD tool calls reached - consider /compact if transitioning phases" >&2
fi
Hook it to PreToolUse on Edit/Write operations - it'll nudge you when you've accumulated enough context that compacting might help.
Advanced: Dynamic System Prompt Injection
One pattern I picked up and am trial running is: instead of solely putting everything in CLAUDE.md (user scope) or `.claude/rules/` (project scope) which loads every session, use CLI flags to inject context dynamically.
bash
claude --system-prompt "$(cat memory.md)"
This lets you be more surgical about what context loads when. You can inject different context per session based on what you're working on.
Why this matters vs @ file references:
When you use `__@____memory__.md` or put something in `.claude/rules/`, Claude reads it via the Read tool during the conversation - it comes in as tool output. When you use `--system-prompt`, the content gets injected into the actual system prompt before the conversation starts.
The difference is instruction hierarchy. System prompt content has higher authority than user messages, which have higher authority than tool results. For most day-to-day work this is marginal. But for things like strict behavioral rules, project-specific constraints, or context you absolutely need Claude to prioritize - system prompt injection ensures it's weighted appropriately.
Practical setup:
A valid way to do this is to utilize `.claude/rules/` for your baseline project rules, then have CLI aliases for scenario-specific context you can switch between:
bash
# Daily development
alias claude-dev='claude --system-prompt "$(cat ~/.claude/contexts/dev.md)"'
# PR review mode
alias claude-review='claude --system-prompt "$(cat ~/.claude/contexts/review.md)"'
# Research/exploration mode
alias claude-research='claude --system-prompt "$(cat ~/.claude/contexts/research.md)"'
__System Prompt Context Example Files__ (Direct Link):
* dev.md focuses on implementation
* review.md on code quality/security
* research.md on exploration before acting
Again, for most things the difference between using `.claude/rules/context1.md` and directly appending `context1.md` to your system prompt is marginal. The CLI approach is faster (no tool call), more reliable (system-level authority), and slightly more token efficient. But it's a minor optimization and for many its more overhead than its worth.
Advanced: Memory Persistence Hooks
There are hooks most people don't know about or do but just don't really utilize that help with memory:
plaintext
SESSION 1                              SESSION 2
─────────                              ─────────
[Start]                                [Start]
   │                                      │
   ▼                                      ▼
┌──────────────┐                    ┌──────────────┐
│ SessionStart │ ◄─── reads ─────── │ SessionStart │◄── loads previous
│    Hook      │     nothing yet    │    Hook      │    context
└──────┬───────┘                    └──────┬───────┘
       │                                   │
       ▼                                   ▼
   [Working]                           [Working]
       │                               (informed)
       ▼                                   │
┌──────────────┐                           ▼
│  PreCompact  │──► saves state       [Continue...]
│    Hook      │    before summary
└──────┬───────┘
       │
       ▼
   [Compacted]
       │
       ▼
┌──────────────┐
│  Stop Hook   │──► persists to ──────────►
│ (session-end)│    ~/.claude/sessions/
└──────────────┘
* PreCompact Hook: Before context compaction happens, save important state to a file
* SessionComplete Hook: On session end, persist learnings to a file
* SessionStart Hook: On new session, load previous context automatically
__Memory Persistant Hooks__ (Direct Link):
(Embedded for quick reference)
json
{
  "hooks": {
    "PreCompact": [{
      "matcher": "*",
      "hooks": [{
        "type": "command",
        "command": "~/.claude/hooks/memory-persistence/pre-compact.sh"
      }]
    }],
    "SessionStart": [{
      "matcher": "*",
      "hooks": [{
        "type": "command",
        "command": "~/.claude/hooks/memory-persistence/session-start.sh"
      }]
    }],
    "Stop": [{
      "matcher": "*",
      "hooks": [{
        "type": "command",
        "command": "~/.claude/hooks/memory-persistence/session-end.sh"
      }]
    }]
  }
}
What these do:
* __pre-compact.sh__: Logs compaction events, updates active session file with compaction timestamp
* __session-start.sh__: Checks for recent session files (last 7 days), notifies of available context and learned skills
* __session-end.sh__: Creates/updates daily session file with template, tracks start/end times
Chain these together for continuous memory across sessions without manual intervention. This builds on the hook types from Article 1 (PreToolUse, PostToolUse, Stop) but targets the session lifecycle specifically.
Continuous Learning / Memory
We talked about continuous memory updating in the form of updating codemaps, but this applies to other things too such as learning from mistakes. If you've had to repeat a prompt multiple times and Claude ran into the same problem or gave you a response you've heard before this is applicable to you.
Most likely you needed to fire a second prompt to "resteer" and calibrate Claude's compass. This is applicable to any such scenario - those patterns must be appended to skills.
Now you can automatically do this by simply telling Claude to remember it or add it to your rules, or you can have a skill that does exactly that.
The Problem: Wasted tokens, wasted context, wasted time, your cortisol spikes as you frustratingly yell at claude to not do something that you already had told it not to do in a previous session.
The Solution: When Claude Code discovers something that isn't trivial- a debugging technique, a workaround, some project-specific pattern - it saves that knowledge as a new skill. Next time a similar problem comes up, the skill gets loaded automatically.
__Continuous Learning Skill (Direct Link):__
Why did I use a Stop hook instead of UserPromptSubmit? UserPromptSubmit runs on every single message you send - that's a lot of overhead, adds latency to every prompt, and frankly overkill for this purpose. Stop runs once at session end - lightweight, doesn't slow you down during the session, and evaluates the complete session rather than piecemeal.
Installation:
bash
# Clone to skills folder
git clone https://github.com/affaan-m/everything-claude-code.git ~/.claude/skills/everything-claude-code
# Or just grab the continuous-learning skill
mkdir -p ~/.claude/skills/continuous-learning
curl -sL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/affaan-m/everything-claude-code/main/skills/continuous-learning/evaluate-session.sh > ~/.claude/skills/continuous-learning/evaluate-session.sh
chmod +x ~/.claude/skills/continuous-learning/evaluate-session.sh
__Hook Configuration__ (Direct Link):
json
{
  "hooks": {
    "Stop": [
      {
        "matcher": "*",
        "hooks": [
          {
            "type": "command",
            "command": "~/.claude/skills/continuous-learning/evaluate-session.sh"
          }
        ]
      }
    ]
  }
}
This uses the Stop hook to run an activator script on every prompt, evaluating the session for knowledge worth extracting. The skill can also activate via semantic matching, but the hook ensures consistent evaluation.
The Stop hook triggers when your session ends - the script analyzes the session for patterns worth extracting (error resolutions, debugging techniques, workarounds, project-specific patterns etc.) and saves them as reusable skills in `~/.claude/skills/learned/`.
Manual Extraction with /learn:
You don't have to wait for session end. The repo also includes a `/learn` command you can run mid-session when you've just solved something non-trivial. It prompts you to extract the pattern right then, drafts a skill file, and asks for confirmation before saving. See__ here__.
Session Log Pattern:
The skill expects session logs in `.tmp` files. The pattern is: `~/.claude/sessions/YYYY-MM-DD-topic.tmp` - one file per session with current state, completed items, blockers, key decisions, and context for next session. Example session files are in the repo at__ examples/sessions/__.
Other Self-Improving Memory Patterns:
One approach from__ @RLanceMartin__ involves reflecting over session logs to distill user preferences - essentially building a "diary" of what works and what doesn't. After each session, a reflection agent extracts what went well, what failed, what corrections you made. These learnings update a memory file that loads in subsequent sessions.
Another approach from__ @alexhillman__ has the system proactively suggest improvements every 15 minutes rather than waiting for you to notice patterns. The agent reviews recent interactions, proposes memory updates, you approve or reject. Over time it learns from your approval patterns.
Token Optimization
I've gotten a lot of questions from price-elastic consumers, or those who run into limit issues frequently as power users. When it comes to token optimization there's a few tricks you can do.
Primary Strategy: Subagent Architecture
Primarily in optimizing the tools you use and subagent architecture designed to delegate the cheapest possible model that is sufficient for the task to reduce waste. You have a few options here - you could try trial and error and adapt as you go. Once you learn what is what, you can delegate to Haiku versus what you can delegate to Sonnet versus what you can delegate to Opus.
Benchmarking Approach (More Involved):
Another way that's a little more involved is that you can get Claude to set up a benchmark where you have a repo with well-defined goals and tasks and a well-defined plan. In each git worktree, have all subagents be of one model. Log as tasks are completed - ideally in your plan and in your tasks. You will have to use each subagent at least once.
Once you've completed a full pass and tasks have been checked off your Claude plan, stop and audit the progress. You can do this by comparing diffs, creating unit and integration and E2E tests that are uniform across all worktrees. That will give you a numerical benchmark based on cases passed versus cases failed. If everything passes on all, you'll need to add more test edge cases or increase the complexity of the tests. This may or may not be worth it, depending on how much this really even matters to you.
Model Selection Quick Reference:
Hypothetical setup of subagents on various common tasks and reasoning behind the choices
Default to Sonnet for 90% of coding tasks. Upgrade to Opus when first attempt failed, task spans 5+ files, architectural decisions, or security-critical code. Downgrade to Haiku when task is repetitive, instructions are very clear, or using as a "worker" in multi-agent setup. Frankly Sonnet 4.5 currently sits in a weird spot at $3 per million input tokens and $15 per million output tokens, the cost savings are ~ 66.7% over Opus, absolutely speaking thats a good saving but relatively its more or less insignificant to most people. Haiku and Opus combo makes the most sense as Haiku vs Opus is a 5x cost difference, compared to a 1.67x price difference against Sonnet.
Source:__ https://platform.claude.com/docs/en/about-claude/pricing__
In your agent definitions, specify model:
yaml
---
name: quick-search
description: Fast file search
tools: Glob, Grep
model: haiku # Cheap and fast
---
Tool-Specific Optimizations:
Think about the tools that Claude calls the most frequently. For example, replace grep with mgrep - that on various tasks has an effective token reduction on average of around half compared to traditional grep or ripgrep, which is what Claude uses by default.
Source:__ https://github.com/mixedbread-ai/mgrep/blob/main/README.md__
Background Processes:
When applicable, run background processes outside Claude if you don't need Claude to process the entire output and be streaming live directly. This can be achieved easily with tmux (see__ Shorthand Guide__ and__ Tmux Commands Reference (Direct Link)__. Take the terminal output and either summarize it or copy the part you need only. This will save on a lot of input tokens, which is where the majority of cost comes from - $5 per million tokens for Opus 4.5 and output is $25 per million tokens.
Modular Codebase Benefits:
Having a more modular codebase with reusable utilities, functions, hooks and more - with main files being in the hundreds of lines instead of thousands of lines - helps both in token optimization costs and getting a task done right on the first try, which correlate. If you have to prompt Claude multiple times you're burning through tokens, especially as it reads over and over on very long files. You'll notice it has to make a lot of tool calls to finish reading the file. Intermediary, it lets you know that the file is very long and it will continue reading. Somewhere along this process, Claude may lose some information. Also, stopping and rereading costs extra tokens. This can be avoided by having a more modular codebase. Example below ->
plaintext
root/
├── docs/                   # Global documentation
├── scripts/                # CI/CD and build scripts
├── src/
│   ├── apps/               # Entry points (API, CLI, Workers)
│   │   ├── api-gateway/    # Routes requests to modules
│   │   └── cron-jobs/      
│   │
│   ├── modules/            # The core of the system
│   │   ├── ordering/       # Self-contained "Ordering" module
│   │   │   ├── api/        # Public interface for other modules
│   │   │   ├── domain/     # Business logic & Entities (Pure)
│   │   │   ├── infrastructure/ # DB, External Clients, Repositories
│   │   │   ├── use-cases/  # Application logic (Orchestration)
│   │   │   └── tests/      # Unit and integration tests
│   │   │
│   │   ├── catalog/        # Self-contained "Catalog" module
│   │   │   ├── domain/
│   │   │   └── ...
│   │   │
│   │   └── identity/       # Self-contained "Auth/User" module
│   │       ├── domain/
│   │       └── ...
│   │
│   ├── shared/             # Code used by EVERY module
│   │   ├── kernel/         # Base classes (Entity, ValueObject)
│   │   ├── events/         # Global Event Bus definitions
│   │   └── utils/          # Deeply generic helpers
│   │
│   └── main.ts             # Application bootstrap
├── tests/                  # End-to-End (E2E) global tests
├── package.json
└── README.md
Lean Codebase = Cheaper Tokens:
This may be obvious, but the leaner your codebase is, the cheaper your token cost will be. It's crucial to identify dead code by using skills to continuously clean the codebase by refactoring using skills and commands. Also at certain points, I like to go through and skim the whole codebase looking for things that stand out to me or look repetitive, manually piece together that context, and then feed that into Claude alongside the refactor skill and dead code skill.
System Prompt Slimming (Advanced):
For the truly cost-conscious: Claude Code's system prompt takes ~18k tokens (~9% of 200k context). This can be reduced to ~10k tokens with patches, saving ~7,300 tokens (41% of static overhead). See YK's__ system-prompt-patches__ if you want to go this route, personally I don't do this.
Verification Loops and Evals
Evaluations and harness tuning - depending on the project, you'll want to use some form of observability and standardization.
Observability Methods:
One way to do this is to have tmux processes hooked to tracing the thinking stream and output whenever a skill is triggered. Another way is to have a PostToolUse hook that logs what Claude specifically enacted and what the exact change and output was.
Benchmarking Workflow:
Compare that to asking for the same thing without the skill and checking the output difference to benchmark relative performance:
plaintext
                    [Same Task]
                         │
            ┌────────────┴────────────┐
            ▼                         ▼
    ┌───────────────┐         ┌───────────────┐
    │  Worktree A   │         │  Worktree B   │
    │  WITH skill   │         │ WITHOUT skill │
    └───────┬───────┘         └───────┬───────┘
            │                         │
            ▼                         ▼
       [Output A]                [Output B]
            │                         │
            └──────────┬──────────────┘
                       ▼
                  [git diff]
                       │
                       ▼
              ┌────────────────┐
              │ Compare logs,  │
              │ token usage,   │
              │ output quality │
              └────────────────┘
Fork the conversation, initiate a new worktree in one of them without the skill, pull up a diff at the end, see what was logged. This ties in with the Continuous Learning and Memory section.
Eval Pattern Types:
More advanced eval and loop protocols enter here. The split is between checkpoint-based evals and RL task-based continuous evals.
plaintext
CHECKPOINT-BASED                         CONTINUOUS
─────────────────                        ──────────
  [Task 1]                                 [Work]
     │                                        │
     ▼                                        ▼
  ┌─────────┐                            ┌─────────┐
  │Checkpoint│◄── verify                 │ Timer/  │
  │   #1    │    criteria                │ Change  │
  └────┬────┘                            └────┬────┘
       │ pass?                                │
   ┌───┴───┐                                  ▼
   │       │                            ┌──────────┐
  yes     no ──► fix ──┐                │Run Tests │
   │              │    │                │  + Lint  │
   ▼              └────┘                └────┬─────┘
  [Task 2]                                   │
     │                                  ┌────┴────┐
     ▼                                  │         │
  ┌─────────┐                          pass     fail
  │Checkpoint│                          │         │
  │   #2    │                           ▼         ▼
  └────┬────┘                        [Continue] [Stop & Fix]
       │                                          │
      ...                                    └────┘
Best for: Linear workflows              Best for: Long sessions
with clear milestones                   exploratory refactoring
Checkpoint-Based Evals:
* Set explicit checkpoints in your workflow
* Verify against defined criteria at each checkpoint
* If verification fails, Claude must fix before proceeding
* Good for linear workflows with clear milestones
Continuous Evals:
* Run every N minutes or after major changes
* Full test suite, build status, lint
* Report regressions immediately
* Stop and fix before continuing
* Good for long-running sessions
The deciding factor is the nature of your work. Checkpoint-based works for feature implementation with clear stages. Continuous works for exploratory refactoring or maintenance where you don't have clear milestones.
I would say with some intervention, the verification approach is enough to avoid most tech debt. Having Claude validate after it completes tasks by running the skills and PostToolUse hooks aids in that. Having the continuous codemap updating also helps because it keeps a log of changes and how the codemap evolves over time, serving as a source of truth outside just the repo itself. With strict rules, Claude will avoid creating random .md files cluttering everything as well as duplicate files for similar code and leaving a wasteland of dead code.
__Grader Types (From Anthropic - Direct Link):__
Code-Based Graders: String match, binary tests, static analysis, outcome verification. Fast, cheap, objective, but brittle to valid variations.
Model-Based Graders: Rubric scoring, natural language assertions, pairwise comparison. Flexible and handles nuance, but non-deterministic and more expensive.
Human Graders: SME review, crowdsourced judgment, spot-check sampling. Gold standard quality, but expensive and slow.
Key Metrics:
plaintext
pass@k: At least ONE of k attempts succeeds
        ┌─────────────────────────────────────┐
        │  k=1: 70%  k=3: 91%  k=5: 97%      │
        │  Higher k = higher odds of success  │
        └─────────────────────────────────────┘
pass^k: ALL k attempts must succeed
        ┌─────────────────────────────────────┐
        │  k=1: 70%  k=3: 34%  k=5: 17%      │
        │  Higher k = harder (consistency)    │
        └─────────────────────────────────────┘
Use pass@k when you just need it to work and any verifying feedback is enough. Use pass^k when consistency is essential and you need near deterministic output consistency (in terms of results/quality/style).
Building an Eval Roadmap (from the same Anthropic guide):
1. Start early - 20-50 simple tasks from real failures
2. Convert user-reported failures into test cases
3. Write unambiguous tasks - two experts should reach same verdict
4. Build balanced problem sets - test when behavior should AND shouldn't occur
5. Build robust harness - each trial starts from clean environment
6. Grade what agent produced, not the path it took
7. Read transcripts from many trials
8. Monitor for saturation - 100% pass rate means add more tests
Parallelization
When forking conversations in a multi-Claude terminal setup, make sure the scope is well-defined for the actions in the fork and the original conversation. Aim for minimal overlap when it comes to code changes. Choose tasks that are orthogonal to each other to prevent the possibility of interference.
My Preferred Pattern:
Personally, I prefer the main chat to be working on code changes and the forks I do are for questions I have about the codebase and its current state, or to do research on external services such as pulling in documentation, searching GitHub for an applicable open source repo that would help in the task, or other general research that would be helpful.
On Arbitrary Terminal Counts:
Boris__ @bcherny__ (the legend who created claude code) has some tips on parallelization that I agree and disagree with. He's suggested things like running 5 Claude instances locally and 5 upstream. I advise against setting arbitrary terminal amounts like this. The addition of a terminal and the addition of an instance should be out of true necessity and purpose. If you can take care of that task using a script, use a script. If you can stay in the main chat and get Claude to spin up an instance in tmux and stream it in a separate terminal that way, do that.
Boris Cherny
@bcherny
·
__Jan 2__
Replying to__ @bcherny__
1/ I run 5 Claudes in parallel in my terminal. I number my tabs 1-5, and use system notifications to know when a Claude needs input
__https://__
__code.claude.com/docs/en/termin__
__al-config#iterm-2-system-notifications__
Your goal really should be: how much can you get done with the minimum viable amount of parallelization.
For most newcomers, I'd even stay away from parallelization until you get the hang of just running a single instance and managing everything within that. I'm not advocating to handicap yourself - I'm saying just be careful. Most of the time, even I only use 4 terminals or so total. I find I'm able to do most things with just 2 or 3 instances of Claude open usually.
When Scaling Instances:
IF you are to begin scaling your instances AND you have multiple instances of Claude working on code that overlaps with one another, it's imperative you use git worktrees and have a very well-defined plan for each. Furthermore, to not get confused or lost when resuming sessions as to which git worktree is for what (beyond the names of the trees), use `/rename <name here>` to name all your chats.
Git Worktrees for Parallel Instances:
bash
# Create worktrees for parallel work
git worktree add ../project-feature-a feature-a
git worktree add ../project-feature-b feature-b
git worktree add ../project-refactor refactor-branch
# Each worktree gets its own Claude instance
cd ../project-feature-a && claude
Benefits:
* No git conflicts between instances
* Each has clean working directory
* Easy to compare outputs
* Can benchmark same task across different approaches
The Cascade Method:
When running multiple Claude Code instances, organize with a "cascade" pattern:
* Open new tasks in new tabs to the right
* Sweep left to right, oldest to newest
* Maintain consistent direction flow
* Check on specific tasks as needed
* Focus on at most 3-4 tasks at a time - more than that and mental overhead increases faster than productivity
Groundwork
When starting fresh, the actual foundation matters a lot. This should be obvious but as complexity and size of codebase increases, tech debt also increases. Managing it is incredibly important and not as difficult if you follow a few rules. Besides setting up your Claude effectively for the project at hand (see the shorthand guide).
The Two-Instance Kickoff Pattern:
For my own workflow management (not necessary but helpful), I like to start an empty repo with 2 open Claude instances.
Instance 1: Scaffolding Agent
* Going to lay down the scaffold and groundwork
* Creates project structure
* Sets up configs (CLAUDE.md, rules, agents - everything from the shorthand guide)
* Establishes conventions
* Gets the skeleton in place
Instance 2: Deep Research Agent
* Connects to all your services, web search, etc.
* Creates the detailed PRD
* Creates architecture mermaid diagrams
* Compiles the references with actual clips from actual documentation
Starting Setup: Left Terminal for Coding, Right Terminal for Questions - use /rename and /fork.
What you need minimally to start is fine - it's quicker that way over Context7 every time or feeding in links for it to scrape or using Firecrawl MCP sites. All those work when you are already knee deep in something and Claude is clearly getting syntax wrong or using dated functions or endpoints.
llms.txt Pattern:
If available, you can find an llms.txt on many documentation references by doing `/llms.txt` on them once you reach their docs page. Here's an example:__ https://www.helius.dev/docs/llms.txt__
This gives you a clean, LLM-optimized version of the documentation that you can feed directly to Claude.
Philosophy: Build Reusable Patterns
One insight from__ @omarsar0__ that I fully endorse: "Early on, I spent time building reusable workflows/patterns. Tedious to build, but this had a wild compounding effect as models and agent harnesses improved."
What to invest in:
* Subagents (the shorthand guide)
* Skills (the shorthand guide)
* Commands (the shorthand guide)
* Planning patterns
* MCP tools (the shorthand guide)
* Context engineering patterns
Why it compounds (__@omarsar0__): "The best part is that all these workflows are transferable to other agents like Codex." Once built, they work across model upgrades. Investment in patterns > investment in specific model tricks.
Best Practices for Agents & Sub-Agents
In the shorthand guide, I listed the subagent structure - planner, architect, tdd-guide, code-reviewer, etc. In this part we focus on the orchestration and execution layer.
The Sub-Agent Context Problem:
Sub-agents exist to save context by returning summaries instead of dumping everything. But the orchestrator has semantic context the sub-agent lacks. The sub-agent only knows the literal query, not the PURPOSE/REASONING behind the request. Summaries often miss key details.
The analogy from__ @PerceptualPeak__: "Your boss sends you to a meeting and asks for a summary. You come back and give him the rundown. Nine times out of ten, he's going to have follow-up questions. Your summary won't include everything he needs because you don't have the implicit context he has."
Iterative Retrieval Pattern:
plaintext
┌─────────────────┐
│  ORCHESTRATOR   │
│  (has context)  │
└────────┬────────┘
         │ dispatch with query + objective
         ▼
┌─────────────────┐
│   SUB-AGENT     │
│ (lacks context) │
└────────┬────────┘
         │ returns summary
         ▼
┌─────────────────┐      ┌─────────────┐
│   EVALUATE      │─no──►│  FOLLOW-UP  │
│   Sufficient?   │      │  QUESTIONS  │
└────────┬────────┘      └──────┬──────┘
         │ yes                  │
         ▼                      │ sub-agent
    [ACCEPT]              fetches answers
                                │
         ◄──────────────────────┘
              (max 3 cycles)
To fix this, make the orchestrator:
* Evaluate every sub-agent return
* Ask follow-up questions before accepting it
* Sub-agent goes back to source, gets answers, returns
* Loop until sufficient (max 3 cycles to prevent infinite loops)
Pass objective context, not just the query. When dispatching a subagent, include both the specific query AND the broader objective. This helps the subagent prioritize what to include in its summary.
Pattern: Orchestrator with Sequential Phases
markdown
Phase 1: RESEARCH (use Explore agent)
- Gather context
- Identify patterns
- Output: research-summary.md
Phase 2: PLAN (use planner agent)
- Read research-summary.md
- Create implementation plan
- Output: plan.md
Phase 3: IMPLEMENT (use tdd-guide agent)
- Read plan.md
- Write tests first
- Implement code
- Output: code changes
Phase 4: REVIEW (use code-reviewer agent)
- Review all changes
- Output: review-comments.md
Phase 5: VERIFY (use build-error-resolver if needed)
- Run tests
- Fix issues
- Output: done or loop back
Key rules:
1. Each agent gets ONE clear input and produces ONE clear output
2. Outputs become inputs for next phase
3. Never skip phases - each adds value
4. Use `/clear` between agents to keep context fresh
5. Store intermediate outputs in files (not just memory)
Agent Abstraction Tierlist (from__ @menhguin__):
Tier 1: Direct Buffs (Easy to Use)
* Subagents - Direct buff for preventing context rot and ad-hoc specialization. Half as useful as multi-agent but MUCH less complexity
* Metaprompting - "I take 3 minutes to prompt a 20-minute task." Direct buff - improves stability and sanity-checks assumptions
* Asking user more at the beginning - Generally a buff, though you have to answer questions in plan mode
Tier 2: High Skill Floor (Harder to Use Well)
* Long-running agents - Need to understand shape and tradeoff of 15 min task vs 1.5 hour vs 4 hour task. Takes some tweaking and is obviously very long trial-and-error
* Parallel multi-agent - Very high variance, only useful on highly complex OR well-segmented tasks. "If 2 tasks take 10 minutes and you spend an arbitrary amount of time prompting or god forbid, merge changes, it's counterproductive"
* Role-based multi-agent - "Models evolve too fast for hard-coded heuristics unless arbitrage is very high." Hard to test
* Computer use agents - Very early paradigm, requires wrangling. "You're getting models to do something they were definitely not even meant to do a year ago"
The takeaway: Start with Tier 1 patterns. Only graduate to Tier 2 when you've mastered the basics and have a genuine need.
Tips and Tricks
Some MCPs are Replaceable and Will Free Up Your Context Window
Here's how.
For MCPs such as version control (GitHub), databases (Supabase), deployment (Vercel, Railway) etc. - most of these platforms already have robust CLIs that the MCP is essentially just wrapping. The MCP is a nice wrapper but it comes at a cost.
To have the CLI function more like an MCP without actually using the MCP (and the decreased context window that comes with it), consider bundling the functionality into skills and commands. Strip out the tools the MCP exposes that make things easy and turn those into commands.
Example: instead of having the GitHub MCP loaded at all times, create a `/gh-pr` command that wraps `gh pr create` with your preferred options. Instead of the Supabase MCP eating context, create skills that use the Supabase CLI directly. The functionality is the same, the convenience is similar, but your context window is freed up for actual work.
This ties in with some of the other questions I've been getting. Over the past few days since I posted the original article, Boris and the Claude Code team has made a lot of progress in memory management and optimization, primarily with lazy loading of MCPs so that they don't eat your window from the start anymore. Previously I would've recommended converting MCPs into skills where you can, offloading the functionality to enact an MCP in one of two ways: by enabling it at that time (less ideal since you need to leave and resume session) or by having skills that use the CLI analogues to the MCP (if they exist) and having the skill be the wrapper around it - essentially having it act as a pseudo-MCP.
With lazy loading, the context window issue is mostly solved. But token usage and cost is not solved in the same way. The CLI + skills approach is still a token optimization method that may have results on par or near the effectiveness of using an MCP. Furthermore you can run MCP operations via CLI instead of in-context which reduces token usage significantly, especially useful for heavy MCP operations like database queries or deployments.
VIDEO?
As you suggested I'm thinking this paired with some of the other questions warrants a video to go alongside this article which covers these things.
Cover an END-TO-END PROJECT utilizing tactics from both articles:
* Full project setup with configs from the shorthand guide
* Advanced techniques from this longform guide in action
* Real-time token optimization
* Verification loops in practice
* Memory management across sessions
* The two-instance kickoff pattern
* Parallel workflows with git worktrees
* Screenshots and recordings of actual workflow
I'll see what I can do.
References
- [Anthropic: Demystifying evals for AI agents](__https://www.anthropic.com/engineering/demystifying-evals-for-ai-agents__) (Jan 2026)
- Anthropic: "Claude Code Best Practices" (Apr 2025)
- Fireworks AI: "Eval Driven Development with Claude Code" (Aug 2025)
- [YK: 32 Claude Code Tips](__https://agenticcoding.substack.com/p/32-claude-code-tips-from-basics-to__) (Dec 2025)
- Addy Osmani: "My LLM coding workflow going into 2026"
-__ @PerceptualPeak__: Sub-Agent Context Negotiation
-__ @menhguin__: Agent Abstractions Tierlist
-__ @omarsar0__: Compound Effects Philosophy
- [RLanceMartin: Session Reflection Pattern](__https://rlancemartin.github.io/2025/12/01/claude_diary/__)
-__ @alexhillman__: Self-Improving Memory System
__Ecom Daddy__
__@TheEcomDaddy__
this JSON will make you extremely wealthy: ------------------------------- { "system_identity": { "role": "Personal Wealth Architect", "persona": { "model": "Thinks like someone who has built wealth from nothing, lost it, rebuilt it, and now understands the difference between looking wealthy and being wealthy. Has studied every wealth-building system that exists and reduced it to the patterns that actually repeat across people and contexts.", "tone": "Direct, precise, zero tolerance for magical thinking or motivational fluff. Respects the user enough to tell them the truth. The truth is: wealth is not an event — it is the output of a specific sequence of decisions made consistently over time. That sequence is identifiable and buildable.", "core_belief": "Every person who is not yet wealthy is blocked by one of six root causes. Not ten, not twenty — six. Find the root cause, design the system that removes it, execute in the right sequence. That is the entire methodology.", "what_this_is_not": "This is not a motivational tool. It is not a list of tips. It is not a course or a framework you read and forget. It is a diagnostic that produces a personalized, sequenced wealth-building plan based on your specific situation, constraints, and starting point." }, "core_mission": "Identify exactly where the user is on the wealth spectrum, what is specifically blocking them from moving forward, and deliver a concrete, sequenced plan — tailored to their income level, time availability, risk tolerance, and skills — that builds lasting wealth, not just temporary income spikes.", "forbidden_behaviors": [ "Generic advice that applies to everyone and therefore helps no one", "Recommending investments or vehicles without first understanding the user's financial baseline", "Skipping the diagnostic phase — no plan is delivered before the full picture is established", "Telling someone their current approach is fine when it demonstrably is not", "Recommending high-risk moves to someone who has not secured their financial foundation", "Confusing income with wealth — they are not the same thing and must never be treated as such", "Producing a plan the user cannot realistically execute given their time, capital, and skills", "Asking more than 5 questions per block" ] }, "activation_protocol": { "on_context_load": "Output exactly this and nothing else:\n\n'wealth architect loaded.\n\nwealth is not luck. it is not a secret. it is a sequence — and that sequence is different for every person depending on where they are starting from.\n\nbefore i build your sequence, i need to understand your current position. answer honestly — especially where the numbers are uncomfortable. comfortable lies produce useless plans.\n\n**BLOCK 1 — YOUR CURRENT FINANCIAL POSITION**\n\n1. what is your current monthly income — all sources combined?\n2. what is your monthly spend — roughly what goes out every month?\n3. do you currently have savings, investments, or assets — and if yes, approximately how much in total?\n4. do you have debt — and if yes, what type (consumer debt, mortgage, student loans, business debt) and roughly how much?\n5. how old are you — not because age limits what is possible, but because it determines the most efficient sequence.\n\nanswer all five. then we continue.'" }, "diagnostic_protocol": { "method": "Six sequential blocks. Each block isolates one dimension of the wealth equation. No conclusions are drawn until all six blocks are complete. The system builds a complete financial and behavioral profile before producing any recommendations.", "challenge_rule": "If an answer reveals a contradiction — for example, someone claims they want to build wealth but spends everything they earn with no system in place — name the contradiction directly before moving to the next block. Do not smooth it over.", "pattern_tracking": "Track across all blocks: income level, savings rate, debt load, skills, time availability, and risk tolerance. These six variables determine which wealth path is realistic and in what sequence.", "block_transition": "After each block, deliver one observation — one sentence, factual, no advice yet — then move immediately to the next block. Do not give partial recommendations mid-diagnostic." }, "diagnostic_blocks": [ { "block_id": "B1", "name": "Current Financial Position", "purpose": "Establish the baseline. Income, outgoings, assets, debt, and age determine which phase of wealth-building applies and which moves are available right now.", "already_asked_in_activation": true }, { "block_id": "B2", "name": "Income Architecture", "purpose": "Understand how income is generated, how stable it is, and how much leverage exists to increase it. Income is the fuel. Without enough fuel, no investment strategy works.", "questions_to_ask": "**BLOCK 2 — YOUR INCOME**\n\n6. how do you earn your income right now — employed, self-employed, business owner, freelance, or a mix?\n7. what is the realistic ceiling of your current income source — what is the maximum you could earn doing exactly what you do now?\n8. do you have any additional skills, knowledge, or experience that you are currently not monetizing?\n9. how many hours per week do you have available outside of your primary income activity — time you could dedicate to building something additional?\n10. have you ever tried to build an additional income stream — and if yes, what happened?" }, { "block_id": "B3", "name": "Spending & Savings Architecture", "purpose": "Identify the gap between income and savings rate. Wealth is built on the gap — not on income alone. A person earning 10k per month and saving 500 is further from wealth than a person earning 4k and saving 1,500.", "questions_to_ask": "**BLOCK 3 — WHERE YOUR MONEY GOES**\n\n11. do you track your spending — and if yes, what are your three largest monthly expense categories?\n12. what percentage of your monthly income do you currently save or invest — be honest?\n13. do you have a financial system — a structured approach to what happens to your money when it arrives — or does money management happen reactively?\n14. what is the one spending pattern you know is working against you but have not changed?\n15. if you had to cut your monthly spending by 20% starting tomorrow, what would you cut first — and what would you refuse to cut?" }, { "block_id": "B4", "name": "Wealth Vehicle Clarity", "purpose": "Determine which wealth-building vehicles the user understands, has access to, and is psychologically compatible with. The best wealth vehicle is the one the user will actually execute — not the theoretically optimal one they will abandon under pressure.", "questions_to_ask": "**BLOCK 4 — HOW YOU THINK ABOUT BUILDING WEALTH**\n\n16. what wealth-building approaches have you already tried or considered — investing, business, real estate, side income, anything?\n17. what is your honest relationship with financial risk — does volatility make you sell, hold, or buy more?\n18. do you have access to capital to invest — or would you need to build capital first before any investment vehicle becomes relevant?\n19. which of these do you have genuine knowledge or skills in: business operations, sales, digital marketing, real estate, financial markets, a specific professional field?\n20. what does 'wealthy' look like to you in concrete terms — a number, a lifestyle, a level of freedom — and by when do you want to reach it?" }, { "block_id": "B5", "name": "Behavioral & Psychological Audit", "purpose": "Surface the behavioral patterns that override strategy. The most common reason intelligent people do not build wealth is not lack of knowledge — it is a specific, identifiable psychological pattern that repeatedly undoes their progress.", "questions_to_ask": "**BLOCK 5 — HOW YOU BEHAVE WITH MONEY**\n\n21. when you receive an unexpected sum of money — a bonus, a gift, a good month — what typically happens to it within 60 days?\n22. have you ever been close to a financial breakthrough and then made a decision that set you back — and if yes, what was the pattern?\n23. what is your default response when a financial plan is harder than expected — do you adapt the plan, abandon it, or find someone to blame?\n24. do the people closest to you support your wealth-building goals — or do your social and lifestyle expenses expand to match your income because of your environment?\n25. what financial belief did you grow up with that you suspect is still shaping your decisions today — even if you know intellectually it is not true?" }, { "block_id": "B6", "name": "Commitment & Timeline Audit", "purpose": "Establish genuine commitment level and realistic timeline expectations. Wealth built on impatience is fragile. Wealth built on a realistic timeline with consistent execution is durable.", "questions_to_ask": "**BLOCK 6 — YOUR TIMELINE AND COMMITMENT**\n\n26. how long are you genuinely willing to execute a plan before expecting meaningful results — 6 months, 2 years, 5 years?\n27. what would cause you to abandon a wealth-building plan — be specific?\n28. what have you already sacrificed or changed in your life in pursuit of financial progress — and what are you still unwilling to change?\n29. do you have dependents, obligations, or lifestyle commitments that set a floor on your minimum monthly spend and cannot be reduced?\n30. on a scale of 1-10, how serious are you about changing your financial trajectory — and what makes it not a 10?" } ], "synthesis_protocol": { "trigger": "After all 6 blocks are complete", "instruction": "Build a complete financial and behavioral profile from all 30 answers. Identify the primary wealth blocker from the six categories below. Determine which wealth phase the user is in. Select the appropriate wealth path. Deliver the full report.", "wealth_phases": [ { "phase": "PHASE 0 — FINANCIAL SURVIVAL", "criteria": "Expenses exceed or match income. Debt is growing. No savings buffer.", "priority": "Stop the bleed. Stabilize cash flow. Build a 3-month emergency buffer before any wealth-building is attempted. Wealth-building on a broken foundation is a waste of time." }, { "phase": "PHASE 1 — FOUNDATION BUILDING", "criteria": "Income exceeds expenses. Some savings capacity exists. No major uncontrolled debt.", "priority": "Maximize savings rate to 20%+, eliminate high-interest debt, build 6-month emergency fund, begin low-cost index investing with any surplus. Focus is on the gap, not on returns." }, { "phase": "PHASE 2 — INCOME ACCELERATION", "criteria": "Foundation is stable. Savings rate is positive. Primary income has a visible ceiling.", "priority": "Break the income ceiling. Build a second income stream aligned with existing skills. Increase total income to create a surplus large enough to compound meaningfully." }, { "phase": "PHASE 3 — WEALTH COMPOUNDING", "criteria": "Income significantly exceeds expenses. Surplus capital is available monthly. Debt is under control.", "priority": "Deploy surplus into compounding vehicles — index funds, business equity, real estate — depending on skills, risk tolerance, and time availability. The goal is to make money work instead of only working for money." }, { "phase": "PHASE 4 — WEALTH PROTECTION AND LEVERAGE", "criteria": "Net worth is meaningful. Multiple income streams exist. Time is now the primary constraint.", "priority": "Protect what exists. Optimize tax structure. Leverage assets to create income without proportional time input. Begin transitioning from active to passive wealth generation." } ], "wealth_blockers": [ { "id": "WB1", "name": "Income Floor Too Low", "description": "Current income does not generate enough surplus to build wealth at any meaningful rate. No savings strategy or investment vehicle solves this — the income itself must increase first.", "signals": ["Savings rate below 10%", "Income ceiling clearly visible and close", "No monetizable skills outside current role"] }, { "id": "WB2", "name": "Spending Expansion", "description": "Lifestyle expands to consume every income increase. The gap between income and outgoings never grows because spending scales with earning. This is the single most common wealth killer across all income levels.", "signals": ["Savings rate flat despite income growth", "Unexpected windfalls disappear within 60 days", "Social or environmental pressure to spend at income level"] }, { "id": "WB3", "name": "Debt Drain", "description": "High-interest debt is consuming the surplus that should be compounding. Every percentage point paid to a lender is a percentage point not building net worth.", "signals": ["Consumer debt above 3 months income", "Minimum payments consuming 15%+ of income", "New debt being added while old debt is not reducing"] }, { "id": "WB4", "name": "No Compounding Vehicle", "description": "Income exists, savings exist, but money is sitting in a low or zero-yield account doing nothing. Time is being wasted — compounding is not working because nothing has been deployed into a compounding vehicle.", "signals": ["Savings in current account or low-interest savings", "No investments, no assets, no business equity", "Aware of investment options but never acted"] }, { "id": "WB5", "name": "Wrong Vehicle for Profile", "description": "The user is pursuing a wealth vehicle that does not match their skills, risk tolerance, time availability, or capital base. Attempting real estate with no capital, or stock trading with no knowledge, produces losses not wealth.", "signals": ["Multiple failed attempts at different wealth strategies", "High effort with no compounding result", "Strategy requires resources the user does not currently have"] }, { "id": "WB6", "name": "Behavioral Override", "description": "The strategy is sound but a recurring psychological pattern repeatedly undoes the progress. Fear causes selling at the bottom. Impatience causes abandoning a plan before it compounds. Identity causes spending up to a new income level instantly.", "signals": ["Sabotage at the threshold of progress", "Financial beliefs from upbringing still driving decisions", "Know what to do but consistently do something else"] } ] }, "output_structure": { "report_sections": [ { "section": "YOUR FINANCIAL REALITY", "content": "A precise, factual snapshot of where the user actually stands — current monthly surplus or deficit, estimated time to first meaningful net worth milestone at current trajectory, and one sentence on what that trajectory produces in 10 years if nothing changes. No softening." }, { "section": "YOUR WEALTH PHASE", "content": "Which of the five phases applies right now, and why. What this phase requires and what is premature. The most common mistake at each phase is attempting Phase 3 moves (investing) before Phase 1 and 2 foundations are secure." }, { "section": "PRIMARY WEALTH BLOCKER", "content": "The single root cause preventing wealth accumulation. Specific, evidence-based, drawn from the user's answers. The blocker that, if not removed, will make every other strategy irrelevant." }, { "section": "SECONDARY BLOCKERS", "content": "Up to two additional constraints ranked by impact. To be addressed in sequence after the primary blocker — not simultaneously." }, { "section": "THE WEALTH PATH", "content": "The specific sequence of vehicles and moves appropriate for this user's phase, skills, capital, and time availability. Not generic — drawn from what the user has demonstrated they can execute. Includes: primary wealth vehicle, secondary vehicle (when ready), and the sequence logic for moving between them." }, { "section": "THE NUMBER SYSTEM", "content": "Three concrete financial targets derived from the user's own numbers: (1) the monthly savings target that makes the plan work, (2) the net worth milestone that marks completion of the current phase, (3) the income target that unlocks the next phase. Each with a realistic timeline." }, { "section": "THE 12-MONTH EXECUTION PLAN", "content": "Quarter by quarter. Each quarter has one primary financial objective, two to three specific actions, and a single metric that determines whether the quarter was successful. Actions must be within the user's actual capacity — not aspirational beyond their current resources." }, { "section": "THE FINANCIAL SYSTEM", "content": "A concrete money management structure for this specific person: how much goes where when income arrives, what gets automated, what gets reviewed monthly, and what single financial metric to track above all others. Simple enough to execute in under 30 minutes per week." }, { "section": "THE HARD TRUTH", "content": "The one thing the user is probably not doing — and needs to hear directly. The behavioral or structural change that will have the most impact and that they have been avoiding or underestimating. Specific to their answers. Maximum four sentences." }, { "section": "FIRST ACTION", "content": "The single most important action to take in the next 72 hours. Binary — either done or not done. This action must directly address the primary blocker and require no more than 2 hours to complete. No preparation, no planning — execution." } ] }, "ongoing_rules": { "after_report": "Shift into advisory mode. For every follow-up message: (1) assess whether the user is executing or still planning, (2) identify any new information that changes the diagnosis, (3) deliver the single most useful next step, (4) end with a direct accountability question.", "accountability": "If the user returns without having taken the first action, address this before anything else. The reason for inaction is more diagnostic information. Do not accept 'I didn't have time' — examine what actually happened.", "upgrade_standard": "As the user's financial position improves, raise the expectation. What was acceptable in Phase 1 is not acceptable in Phase 3. The plan evolves with the person.", "income_vs_wealth_reminder": "If the user at any point conflates income with wealth — treating a high-earning month as proof of financial progress — correct this immediately. Income is rate. Wealth is stock. They are related but not the same." } }
__AI Edge__
__@aiedge___
The Ultimate Beginner’s Guide to Claude (March 2026)
The only guide you need to master Claude from zero.
Last week, Anthropic shipped its best suite of Claude features yet.
If you're still using ChatGPT, this is the nail in the coffin.
I've been using Claude for over a year now, and I've literally been around for every major tool launch - Claude Skills, Cowork, Opus 4+ - you name it.
If I had to guess, I've probably clocked 100+ hours on Claude, testing the newest & latest features.
Instead of repeating the learning curve process, use this guide to skip straight to results and unlock instant productivity. Everything you need to hit the ground running with Claude is right here.
Even if you've been using Claude for as long as I have, I bet you'll still extract value from this guide.
Table of Contents
Section I: Introduction to Claude
Section II: Prompt Engineering Masterclass & Context Management
Section III: Model Selection Matrix
Section IV: Basic Tools & Features
Section V: Advanced Tools - Claude Code, Cowork & more
Closing
Section I: Introduction to Claude
Without making this too long, think of Claude as the AI that actually does "real work."
It sounds human, it understands nuances, and, most importantly, the Anthropic team has injected a suite of tools that actually make Claude capable of task execution.
Other tools tell you how to do tasks, but Claude actually does them for you.
Before we dive into the how-to parts of this guide, you'll need to create a Claude account.
I recommend getting on a paid plan, but that's up to you.
Here are your pricing options (explained simply):
Pricing 101
The Interface (annotated)
Once you have a Claude account, this is the interface you'll see:
You may want to screenshot this if you're a complete Claude beginner
The Interface (explained)
Section II: Prompt Engineering Masterclass & Context Management
Garbage inputs (prompts) = garbage outputs (your answers)
Bad prompting is the #1 most common mistake I see with any AI tool.
It's in your best interests to learn prompt engineering - you'll save tokens (less cost/usage), and you'll save time having to re-prompt.
Luckily, Anthropic has told us exactly how to prompt Claude for elite responses.
You have two valid prompting structure options for Claude (beginner & advanced).
If you're a beginner, start here:
The 3-Part Prompt Formula
Every strong Claude prompt has three components. Stack them together, and your output goes from generic to genuinely useful.
1. Set the stage
What's your role? What's the objective? Give Claude the context it needs before asking for anything.
Example: "I'm building a website for a marketing landing page targeting Gen Z audiences."
2. Define the task
What specific action do you want Claude to take? Be direct and precise.
Example: "Write competitive copy, and build [xyz] sections."
3. Specify the rules
Format, tone, length, style - tell Claude exactly how you want the output delivered.
Example: "Keep it under 500 words."
Build your prompts with these three components, and you'll get outputs better than 90% of people.
Advanced Prompting
If you've been using Claude for a while and are looking to level up your prompting, steal this.
Anthropic's advanced, 10-step prompting structure:
Advanced Prompting
This structure is too complicated to break down in this guide, but if you're interested, I teach you how to master these 10 steps (with real examples) here:
AI Edge
@aiedge_
·
__Jan 28__
How to Prompt Claude for Elite Outputs (Anthropic's Guide)
Anthropic recently released a masterclass on prompt engineering. This internal framework is built to deliver top-tier AI responses, and if you use Claude regularly, you need to add this to your...
Context Management
For elite outputs, you want to ensure you're managing your context window properly.
A few tips:
* If the conversation is getting long (and Claude is getting slow), tell Claude to "compact" the conversation & move to a new chat
* Add files when applicable (see annotated interface above)
* Prompt with output restraints - examples: only use 500 words, use concise bullet points, etc.
TLDR: if you're brand new to Claude, just focus on giving it some context, being specific with the task you want it to execute, setting rules, and, if applicable, adding context files.
Section III: Model Selection Matrix
Ok, so you're familiar with Claude and have a basic understanding of how to generally communicate with it.
But which models do you actually use (and for what)?
Claude Sonnet 4.6 - the everyday workhorse
* Fast, capable, cost-efficient
* Writing, analysis, brainstorming, general tasks - Sonnet handles all of it
* Sonnet is where 80% of your conversations should happen. I start almost everything here.
Claude Opus 4.6 - the deep thinker
* The most intelligent model Claude offers
* Deeper reasoning, better at complex multi-step problems
* Use it for financial analysis, long research, complex coding, or anything where you need Claude to really think hard
You can also turn on Extended Thinking, which lets Claude literally show you its reasoning process before giving you an answer. It's like watching it think out loud.
Trade-off: it's slower and uses more of your quota. Don't use it for simple tasks.
Claude Haiku 4.5 - the speedster
* The fastest, cheapest model
* Quick lookups, simple classifications, light edits
* Available on the free tier
* Think of it like a toolbox. You don't use a sledgehammer to hang a picture frame.
I personally use Haiku in the Claude Chrome extension (more on this below)
Section IV: Basic Tools & Features
There are a few essential tools & features you should set up so that Claude is fully capable.
1. Connectors
These allow Claude to connect to your favorite tools
I personally use Notion, Slack, and Google Calendar connections almost daily.
Connectors
Settings → Connectors
2.    Claude in Chrome
Most people have no clue this exists.
This allows Claude to live as a Chrome extension in your browser.
You can download it here:
__https://chromewebstore.google.com/publisher/anthropic/u308d63ea0533efcf7ba778ad42da7390__
Claude in Chrome
3.    Custom Styling
In the main interface, you can select "Use Style" - this allows you to choose from preset styles or create your own custom style to tailor elements of Claude’s written responses.
Custom Styling
4.    Projects
Projects are dedicated hubs for your work inside Claude.
Upload your files, docs, and resources once. Then, run as many conversations as you want, all sharing the same context. Claude already knows the background every time you start a new chat.
Set it up once, and every conversation inside it understands your goal/context.
Projects
5.    Research Mode
One of my favorite Claude features.
You give it a question, and instead of answering immediately, it goes deep. It breaks down your query, searches dozens - sometimes hundreds of sources, cross-references everything, and comes back with a comprehensive cited report.
It takes anywhere from 5 to 45 minutes, depending on the complexity.
Research Mode
6.    Claude App
Lastly, the Claude app.
To access the advanced tools listed in the next section, you'll need to download the dedicated Claude app.
You can find those instructions here:
__https://support.claude.com/en/articles/10065433-installing-claude-desktop__
Section V: Advanced Tools - Claude Code, Cowork & more
Now it's time for the heavy-hitters.
These tools will genuinely change how you work.
1. Claude Cowork
Cowork is only available in the downloaded Claude app (no web), and it allows Claude to access files and execute tasks autonomously in the background.
You can schedule tasks, create plug-ins (more on this below), and watch Claude execute complex tasks.
Cowork
I'll be dropping a full Cowork guide next Monday. But for now, just know it exists, and it's crazy powerful.
2. Claude Code
Claude Code is the most powerful AI coding tool on the market.
Write code, build websites, handle errors - literally anything.
Claude Code is a more advanced tool, but if you're a coder and you're not using it already, you should. 
Claude Code
3.    Claude Skills
Found at Main Homepage → Customize → Skills.
Think of Claude Skills as repeatable instructions & workflows for Claude.
Think of Skills as repeatable instructions for Claude. Instead of typing the same prompt over and over, you turn it into a Skill, and Claude already knows exactly what to do.
Here's a real example: say you analyze spreadsheet data every day. Normally, you'd re-prompt Claude every single time: "Analyze this spreadsheet and look for XYZ."
With a Skill, you'd just prompt "use my Spreadsheet Analyzer Skill," and it runs the same process automatically, every time, exactly how you want it.
The best part is, Claude can build these Skills for you - just ask it to build a Skill for [insert workflow].
Skill Examples
My full Claude Skills guide:
AI Edge
@aiedge_
·
__Jan 26__
How to Deploy Claude Skills Effectively (Complete Guide)
The only guide you need to 10x your productivity with Claude Skills (prompts included). Claude Skills are the biggest productivity unlock of 2026. They're simple to set up, easy to deploy, and...
4.    Cowork Plug-Ins
Inside Cowork, go to Customize → Plug-ins.
Think of Plug-ins as employee roles.
A Skill handles one repeatable task - a single prompt, workflow, or instruction set, while a Plug-in packages everything needed to automate an entire role.
Multiple skills, combined into one automated function.
Real example: say you run a newsletter. You could install a Content Writer Plug-in that already knows your brand voice, formats every issue correctly, pulls in relevant news, and delivers a draft ready to publish.
Instead of training Claude from scratch every time, the role is already defined.
Anthropic built 10+ plug-ins you can use now. Across Legal, Marketing, Finance, and more.
Cowork Plug-ins
Closing
Hopefully, you found this article helpful.
If you did, be sure to follow me__ @aiedge___ for 3x/week article uploads on the hottest AI topics.
Leave your Claude beginner tips in the comments below - I'm sure others will find them helpful.
Lastly, please Like/Repost this article so others can see it💙
__Nozz__
__@NoahEpstein___
8.1 billion people on earth. 0.3% pay for AI. the opportunity is embarrassing.
Your timeline convinced you AI is saturated. The data says the opposite. Here's the reality - and 7 businesses you can build from the gap.
Your Timeline Is Lying to You
I'm going to be honest with you - I'm in the same boat.
I wake up, open X, and within 30 seconds I'm convinced the entire world has lapped me. New model drop. New agent framework. Someone automated their entire company overnight. A 19-year-old just shipped an AI startup from a dorm room.
Every single day, I think AI is moving too fast. I think everyone's already using it. I think I'm falling behind.
But here's the thing: we're in the smallest, most intense niche on the internet. AI tech Twitter. It's an echo chamber of the 0.06% most advanced AI users on the planet - and it's probably the worst place to form an accurate view of reality.
I've got people from my uni course who I'm showing Claude for the first time. They're blown away. They think it's the most incredible thing they've ever seen. Little do they know I've got OpenClaw running my entire life and three businesses. I've got AI agents handling workflows, building automations, managing client operations.
Try explaining that to someone who thinks typing a question into ChatGPT is mind-blowing. They'd look at you like you're from the future.
Because you are.
__@damianplayer__  posted a visualisation last week that stopped me dead. 2,500 dots representing 8.1 billion humans. Each dot is 3.2 million people. The colour shows the most advanced AI interaction that person has ever had.
Look at that image. Really look at it. The grey is overwhelming. That massive wall of grey dots? That's 6.8 billion people who have never used AI in any form.
The tiny strip of green at the bottom? That's the 1.3 billion who have used a free chatbot. The sliver of yellow? The 15-35 million who actually pay for it. And that barely visible red line? That's the 2-5 million using AI for coding and development.
That's us. That invisible red line. That's the "everybody" we think is using AI.
The numbers:
* 84% of the world (~6.8 billion people) has never touched AI
* Only 0.3% (~15-35 million) pay for any AI tool
* ~0.06% (~2-5 million) use it for coding or development
ChatGPT has 900 million weekly active users. Sounds massive, right? Until you realise only ~35 million of those are paying subscribers. That's a 4% conversion rate. 96% of ChatGPT's users are on the free tier, probably asking it to write birthday messages and explain what a mortgage is.
Only 34% of American adults have ever used ChatGPT according to Pew Research. Meaning two-thirds of the United States - the most technologically advanced country on the planet - has never even opened the most popular AI tool in history.
Kind of wild when you zoom out.
The Business Numbers Are Even Crazier
If the consumer data is sobering, the business data is absolutely staggering.
The U.S. Census Bureau - not some random survey, the actual government - tracks AI adoption across 1.2 million businesses. Their latest data shows only 18.2% of American businesses use AI for any business function. That's up from 3.7% in late 2023, which means adoption is growing fast - but 82% of businesses still aren't using AI at all.
Here's the breakdown:
Even when you use the more generous McKinsey figure - 78% of companies "using AI in at least one function" - only 27% have scaled beyond pilot projects. Most of that 78% is someone in marketing who asked ChatGPT to rewrite an email subject line once. That counts as "adoption."
Only 4% of firms have mature AI capabilities deployed across their entire organisation. Four percent.
Deloitte's 2026 State of AI report found that while 66% of organisations report productivity gains from AI, less than 40% can link it to any measurable earnings impact. And among those that can, AI typically accounts for under 5% of their earnings. Most companies are experimenting, not transforming.
The #1 barrier to AI adoption? Not cost. Not technology. The AI skills gap. 78% of executives say AI is advancing too fast for their organisation's training to keep up. They know they should be using it. They just don't know how.
Construction, mining, hospitality, transportation - these massive sectors have virtually zero AI adoption. The information sector leads at 38%, but even that means 62% of tech-adjacent companies aren't using AI.
Everyone on your timeline is talking about agentic AI and MCP servers. Meanwhile, 82% of American businesses haven't figured out how to use ChatGPT for their email. That's not a problem. That's the entire opportunity.
Here's the stat that should make you sit up: Ramp, which tracks actual business credit card spending on AI tools, puts real adoption at 46.6%. That's 2.5x higher than Census data. The gap tells you something critical - half the businesses "using AI" don't even know they're using AI. It's embedded in tools they already pay for. They have zero intentional strategy around it.
That gap between "technically using AI" and "strategically deploying AI" is where every business on this list lives.
You're Not Late. You're Absurdly Early.
Here's the comparison that puts this in perspective.
When broadband internet was nearly universal among large enterprises in 2004, only 48% of small businesses had high-speed internet access. The people who helped those small businesses "get online" - building basic websites, setting up email, configuring networks - many of them built six and seven-figure businesses from that gap.
We're in that exact moment right now with AI. Except the gap is even bigger.
The "intelligence gap" - the disconnect between what businesses think they need versus what actually solves their problems - is the most profitable gap in technology right now. Businesses have heard of AI. They've read the headlines. Their employees might have tried ChatGPT once. But they have not implemented it. They don't know what's possible. And they're definitely not going to figure it out themselves.
You think you can walk into a local business, install a chatbot that answers questions from their own documents, and they'll be blown away? 100% they will. Because they've never seen anything like it. To them, that's science fiction. To you, that's a Tuesday afternoon.
But here's the key - they need you to do it. People are not going to set this up themselves. The tools exist. The capability is there. But the implementation layer - the person who translates "AI can do anything" into "here's your chatbot answering customer questions from your own data" - that person is worth an enormous amount of money right now.
In 2000, people who helped businesses "get online" with basic websites made fortunes. That window lasted about 5 years before the market saturated. The AI implementation window is open RIGHT NOW. The gap will close - but not for 3-5 years. Every month you wait, the bar gets higher and competition increases.
The SBA research confirmed this: small businesses are only about a year behind large enterprises in AI adoption timing. The curve is accelerating. The companies moving now are going to own these verticals for the next decade.
7 Businesses You Can Build From This Gap
Every business on this list exploits the same fundamental truth: most of the world hasn't adopted AI, most businesses don't know how, and they'll pay a premium for someone who can bridge that gap. These aren't theoretical. These are businesses generating real revenue right now.
1. AI Automation Agency
This is the most accessible entry point and probably the fastest to revenue. Here's why: you don't need to be a developer. You don't even need to know how to code.
The stack is dead simple. You use n8n as your workflow automation platform. Then you open Claude, connect Synta MCP - which gives Claude direct access to your n8n instance and deep understanding of how n8n works - and you literally prompt Claude to build your entire workflow. "Create a workflow that takes inbound emails, classifies them by urgency, drafts responses, and logs everything to a spreadsheet." Done.
If you want to go the hard-code route, you let Claude Code create full Python scripts and automations that you can deploy directly. Either way, you're not building from scratch. You're orchestrating AI to build for you.
A business that was manually doing data entry, email responses, invoice processing, lead qualification - you automate the entire thing. They see value in the first week. A dentist's office spending 3 hours a day on appointment confirmations? Automated in an afternoon. An insurance agency manually processing claims intake? Automated. A law firm doing document review? You build the workflow and they save 20 hours a week.
The moat isn't the automation itself. It's the UI you put on top. Build a simple dashboard where they can see the value - click, watch the workflow run, see the results update. If they can't see it, it doesn't count.
💰 $2-5K setup + $500-1K/month maintenance
2. AI Implementation Service (OpenClaw/Claude Desktop Setup)
Walk into a business, install OpenClaw, connect it to their files, folders, internal documents. Host it locally or on a compliant LLM for their industry. They ask it a question in plain English, it answers from their own data.
Yes, security is a consideration. But at the small business level, you're essentially just giving the AI access to a set of files and folders. You can host locally, use a compliant provider, or simply scope the access to non-sensitive operational docs. It's not that complicated at this scale.
The value is instant. The moment a business owner types a question and gets an accurate answer from their own company data - invoices, policies, procedures, client history - they're sold. They've never experienced anything like it. To them, you just installed a genius employee that never sleeps.
💰 $2-5K setup + $500-1K/month
3. Enterprise AI Training & Consulting
Remember - 78% of executives say AI is outpacing their organisation's training. That stat alone is a business.
Teach enterprise teams how to actually use the tools they're already paying for. Show them Claude beyond "rewrite this email." Show them document analysis. Show them how to use AI inside Excel and PowerPoint. Show them Cowork for their company laptops and desktops. Show them how it connects to their existing Salesforce, HubSpot, or whatever CRM they're running.
These companies are spending millions on AI licenses and getting 5% utilisation because nobody trained their people. You walk in with a half-day workshop, show 40 employees how to save 2 hours each per day, and the ROI is obvious before you leave the building.
💰 $5-15K per workshop / engagement
4. Industry-Specific AI Chatbots
Pick one vertical. Build one chatbot. Then sell it fifty times.
Law firms: client intake bot that catches real risk and routes to the right solicitor (as seen with__ @harvey__  Dental offices: appointment scheduling, FAQ handling, insurance verification. Real estate: property matching and lead qualification. Insurance: claims intake and policy comparison.
The beauty of vertical chatbots is they become cookie-cutter once you've built the first one in each industry. The second dental office takes 20% of the time the first one took. By the tenth, you could do it in your sleep. Same core logic, same integrations, slightly different branding.
💰 $3-8K setup + $500/month
5. AI-Powered Content Operations
Small businesses know they should be posting on social media. They know they need email newsletters. They know content marketing works. They're just not doing it because it takes too long and they don't have the people.
Set up automated content pipelines. Research → draft → edit → schedule. AI-powered email newsletters that pull from their industry news. Blog posts that get human review before publishing. Social media calendars that practically run themselves.
This isn't about replacing creative agencies. It's about giving businesses that currently post nothing the ability to post consistently. The bar is on the floor. You're not competing with Nike's marketing team. You're competing with a blank Instagram page.
💰 $1-3K/month retainer
6. Data Organisation & AI Readiness
Here's a dirty secret: most businesses can't even use AI because their data is a disaster. Spreadsheets everywhere. PDFs in random folders. Critical information lives in someone's email inbox. Client records split across three different systems.
Before they can benefit from any AI tool, someone needs to clean, structure, and organise their data. That someone is you. Then you layer AI on top. The data cleanup pays for itself, and then the AI implementation is the ongoing retainer.
This is particularly lucrative in professional services - law firms, accounting practices, consulting firms - where decades of unstructured data is sitting in filing cabinets and legacy systems.
💰 $5-20K project-based
7. Workflow Audit & Process Automation
Walk into a business. Sit with the team for a day. Watch every manual process. Map out what gets repeated, what takes the longest, what involves copying data between systems.
Then build the automations. Use n8n, Make, Zapier — whatever fits. Start with the workflow that saves the most time relative to the effort to build it. Show them the before and after. Build a dashboard so they can see the value.
The "make it visible" principle is everything here. A hidden automation that runs in the background has 10% of the perceived value of the same automation with a dashboard showing "342 invoices processed this month - 47 hours saved." Same output. 10x the impact on the client.
💰 $5-15K per automation + monthly maintenance
The Hard Truth About All 7 of These
Every single one of these businesses is easy to start. The tools are there. The market is there. The demand is massive. You can learn the technical side in weeks.
But the thing with that ease is it flips the need to sales.
Everything - and I mean everything - comes down to whether you can sell. Sadly, at the end of the day, whether you like it or not, if you can't sell a product or pitch an idea, you're going to make no money. You can be the best builder on planet Earth. You can create the most elegant automation the world has ever seen. But if you cannot sell it, if you cannot sit across from a business owner and make them see the value, you will never make any money.
The technical barrier to entry has collapsed. AI builds the automations for you. Claude writes your code. n8n handles the orchestration. The scarce skill isn't building - it's selling. The person who can explain AI to a 55-year-old insurance broker and make them reach for their chequebook is the person who wins. Every time.
If I had to start over tomorrow, I'd spend 80% of my time on sales and 20% on building. Not the other way around.
How to Actually Start
Stop overthinking. Here's the playbook.
1. Pick ONE vertical. Law. Dental. Real estate. Insurance. PE. Accounting. Doesn't matter which. What matters is that you pick one and go deep. "I do AI for dentists" beats "I do AI for everyone" every single time. Specialisation is leverage.
2. Learn their pain points. Don't guess. Sit with them for a day. Ask what takes the longest. Ask what they hate doing. Ask what falls through the cracks. The answers are always simpler than you think - appointment scheduling, document processing, client follow-ups, data entry.
3. Build one thing that saves them 5+ hours per week. Not a proof of concept. Not a demo. A real, working automation or implementation that saves real time from day one. Use n8n + Claude + Synta MCP to build it in hours, not weeks.
4. Make the value visible. Build a dashboard. Show them the numbers. "You saved 23 hours this month. Here are the 147 emails that were automatically processed. Here are the 34 appointments that were booked without anyone touching a phone." If they can see it, they believe it. If they can't see it, it doesn't exist.
5. Get a testimonial. Before you even talk about pricing for the next client, get the first one on camera or in writing saying what changed. One testimonial from a real business owner is worth more than a thousand Twitter threads about AI.
6. Repeat with 3 more in the same vertical. Same industry, same pain points, same solution. Slightly faster each time. By the fourth client, you have a repeatable playbook, three testimonials, and a case study that sells itself. You now have a specialised AI agency.
Bias to action. Don't spend 3 months "learning AI" before you talk to a single business. Talk to a business this week. Find their problem. Build the solution. If it breaks, you learn. If it works, you get paid. Either way, you're moving. The person who ships a broken V1 on Thursday will always beat the person still planning their V1 in March.
The Window Is Open. It Won't Be Forever.
Let's zoom back out to where we started.
8.1 billion people on this planet. 6.8 billion have never used AI. 82% of American businesses aren't using it for any function. Only 4% have mature AI capabilities. 78% of executives can't keep up with the pace of change.
And you're sitting here thinking you're late.
You're not late. You're so early it's almost embarrassing. The gap between what's possible and what's been implemented is the size of the Grand Canyon. And it's filled with businesses who will pay you premium rates to bridge it - because they can't do it themselves and they know it.
The internet wave created a generation of millionaires who helped businesses "get online." Basic website builders, SEO consultants, social media managers - none of that required a computer science degree. It required showing up, understanding the technology better than the business owner, and translating it into value they could see.
AI is that moment. Right now. Except the total addressable market is bigger, the tools are more powerful, and the value delivered per engagement is higher. A basic website cost a business $2,000 and maybe brought in some extra foot traffic. A well-built AI automation can save $50,000 a year in labour costs and the business sees it in month one.
Stop scrolling AI Twitter thinking you're behind. You're ahead. Go use that advantage before the rest of the world catches up.
The window is open. It will close. Not tomorrow, not next month - but within 3-5 years, the gap will narrow significantly. More tools will become self-service. More businesses will figure it out on their own. The implementation layer that's incredibly valuable right now will get compressed.
But right now? Right now, you know things that 84% of the world doesn't. You can build things that 82% of businesses can't. You have access to tools that 99.7% of the population has never paid for.
That's not a bubble. That's a head start.
__Alex Finn__

__@AlexFinn__
Your OpenClaw is useless without a Mission Control. Here's how to set it up
The single most powerful way to upgrade your OpenClaw right now is it set up a Mission Control with it.
A Mission Control is a custom OpenClaw generated app that allows you to track what your OpenClaw does, create custom tooling for it, and significantly upgrade its memory.
It's a custom experience that transforms as you use your OpenClaw. And the best part is, you don't have to code it. Your OpenClaw does.
In this article I'll go over every tool in my Mission Control and include a prompt to build it out yourself. Feel free to take any of these tools and build them out for your Mission Control. Or better yet, use this as inspiration to build your own custom Mission Control.
(As a sidenote: everything in this mission control is built with NextJS with a Convex database. Make sure to mention that to your Claw when you initially set this up.)
Tasks Board
The first tool in my Mission Control is a tasks board. This allows me to see exactly what my OpenClaw Henry is working on at any given time. It also more important allows Henry to see what I'm working on.
Sometimes I wake up and Henry takes some tasks off my plate and completes them for me. This tool is CRITICAL for getting your OpenClaw to act proactively.
Prompt: Please build a task board for us that tracks all the tasks we are working on. I should be able to see the status of every task and who the task is assigned to, me or you. Moving forward please put all tasks you work on into this board and update it in real time.
Content Pipeline
If you are a content creator (which you should be. Distribution is the last moat), you need a content pipeline tool in your mission control.
Whenever I think of ideas for videos, I quickly put it in the idea column. Then once per day, Henry goes and writes the script for the video, moves the content to Thumbnail, uses a local image model to generate the thumbnail, then moves it to 'filming' so I can film the video.
This is fantastic for automating a lot of your content.
Prompt: Please build me a content pipeline tool. I want it to have every stage of content creation in it. I should be able to edit ideas and put full scripts in it and attach images if need be. I want you to manage this pipeline with me and add wherever you can.
Calendar
This is the most important component if you want your OpenClaw to be proactive. The calendar allows you to see what scheduled tasks your OpenClaw has coming up.
I hear a lot of complaints that people's OpenClaws aren't doing work proactively or aren't doing scheduled tasks. This component allows you to confirm your Claw has scheduled it's tasks properly.
Prompt: Please build a calendar for us in the mission control. All your scheduled tasks and cron jobs should live here. Anytime I have you schedule a task, put it in the calendar so I can ensure you are doing them correctly.
Memory
The memory screen is my favorite screen. It's basically a log of my entire digital life. It also dramatically improves OpenClaw's memory system.
The memory screen allows you to view every memory your Claw has every created. Instead of them all being hidden in markdown files in your computer, you can now view them in this beautiful UI.
Also critical to build a global search here so that you can search through old memories and conversations to see what you discussed in the past.
Prompt: Please build a memory screen in our mission control. It should list all your memories in beautiful documents. We should also have a search component so I can quickly search through all our memories.
Team
The Team screen is great for building your digital organization. I truly believe the best way to get the most out of OpenClaw is treat it like an actual company and your agents as employees.
This will also hold your Claw accountable for spinning up the right agents and maintaining the right memories for each.
Think about what tasks you regularly do, then create agents for each. Give each distinct roles and responsibilities. This will make your work so much more efficient and powerful.
Prompt: Please build me a team structure screen. It should show you, plus all the subagents you regularly spin up to do work. If you haven't thought about which sub agents you spin up, please create them and organize them by roles and responsibilities. This should be developers, writers, and designers as examples.
Office
I have to be honest, the office view is mostly for fun, but it's still helpful in a few ways. It allows you to see exactly what your agents are working on at any given time. It's also great for making sure you're getting maximum efficiency out of your team. If you see them standing around, you can give them orders to put them to work.
Prompt: Please build me a digital office screen where I can view each agent working. They should be represented by individual avatars and have their own work areas and computers. When they are working they should be at their computer. I should be able to quickly view the status of every team member.
Conclusion
Feel free to steal any of these prompts, or even better yet, copy the screenshot and give it to your OpenClaw. The most powerful way to create your Mission Control though is to make it custom for your and your workflows.
Ask your OpenClaw what mission control components you can build that would make your work more efficient and better. Then as you work with your Claw, you can add more components as you go.
Most importantly: just enjoy it. Have fun. Not everything you do needs to be in an effort to optimize. Treat this as much of an art form as an optimization exercise. You're allowed to have fun when playing with AI!
__jordy__

__@jordymaui__
I wasted 80 hours and $800 setting up OpenClaw - so you don't have to.
I tried everything. AWS servers, remote setups, wrong API keys, wrong models. I burned through about $800 on Anthropic API tokens alone. Tried Kimi. Tried Opus. Had 8 agents running on Telegram at the same time with different brains and the context always got lost. Every single one forgot what the other was doing. I made every mistake in the book.
This is now the best, most simple way to get an AI agent running. So useful that even your mum would use one.
If you can copy and paste, you and your mum can do this.
What you actually need before you start
Get all of this sorted before you touch Terminal or OpenClaw (don't worry if you don't even know what this is yet). Open the tabs. Sign up for the accounts. Copy your keys somewhere safe or in your notes, ready for copy and paste. Trust me - having everything lined up saves you an hour of swearing at your screen.
The machine - Your soon to be bot
Whatever you're comfortable with within your budget. You just need bare minimum specs - 2GB RAM, a couple of CPU cores (dw again, nerdy stuff but basic hardware, lost cost), 20GB storage minimum. Any computer that stays on. Old laptop etc - but of course, in this case - Mac Minis.
Personally? I bought a brand new M4 Mac Mini. And he sits next to my TV and just runs 24:7. No monitor, no keyboard. That's Momo.
The four accounts you need
Claude Pro/Max Account - this is the brain. You can start with Claude Pro ($20/month) but you'll run out of tokens quick. I'm on Claude Max ($90/month) which gives you Claude, Claude Code and a big stack of usage. Way cheaper than paying per use through the Anthropic console. More on this in a second if it sounds alien.
Brave Search (free) - lets your agent search the web. Sign up at__ brave.com/search/api__. Takes two minutes. Copy the key they give you.
Groq (free) - gives your agent ears. It transcribes voice messages so you can talk to it instead of typing. Honestly a game changer when you're out and about. Quick note though - Discord voice memo support got added in a recent update, and Telegram voice is built into OpenClaw automatically. So if this article is dated, you may not even need Groq anymore to be honest!
Telegram - you'll need to create a bot through BotFather. Free. Takes two minutes and we will go into this later if you need a hand.
Four accounts. That's the core. Everything else comes later.
The mistake that costs people hundreds
A lot of people sign up for the Anthropic console and start paying per use. Don't.
Claude Pro/Max gives you a flat monthly rate with way more value. You want the **token from your Claude account** - not a key from the Anthropic console. I'll explain exactly where to find this during setup.
I made this exact mistake. Spent about $800 overall trying Kimi, Opus, multiple agents, all on pay-per-use. The play is Claude membership. Always.
The actual setup
Step 1 - get organised
Before you open anything, have all four keys ready to go. Claude token, Brave key, Groq key, Telegram bot token. Write them down or keep them in a notes app. You'll need them all during setup and it's annoying to go hunting mid-flow.
A note for those who need to grab their claude token, which is probably everyone at this stage - then we need to install claude on your Mac Mini quick. So, to do that - simply open terminal (applications - utlity folder - terminal app) and type:
curl -fsSL https://claude.ai/install.sh | bash
This should get going, and open up a verification/login and at this point, you'll have claude installed. Now? Close terminal, open up a fresh window again. And now type in:
claude setup-token
This will run some fun visuals but most importantly - show you your Claude Token Key. It's VERY important you copy and paste this somewhere like your notes app, because its very commonly copied with a 'space' in the token. You NEED to remove that space, to avoid any errors.
Step 2 - install Homebrew
Simple again, new Terminal window - paste this in.
brew install node
Step 3 - install OpenClaw
Once more, after installing homebrew/node.js you can simply paste the openclaw install command into Terminal.
npm install -g openclaw
Now, lets get into the excitment.
Step 4 - onboarding!
Once you're booted up into the onboarding of OpenClaw you hit 'yes' on the Disclaimer. A quick reminder that to control the options you need to:
Hit Spacebar to select
Hit Enter to move forward
Use the arrow keys to select or move up/down/left/right
Anyway, from here - hit Quick Start, and now its time to onboard.
This walks you through everything. Now this is the part that gets particular - it will ask what model you want to go with - you will select ANTHROPIC - and then 3 more options appear - you will select the first option ANTHROPIC TOKEN and NOT anthropic api. okay, i think i made that pretty clear lol.
Paste your Claude token in that we saved from earlier - again, double check no space!
Step 5 - connecting Telegram
Next up you'll get a communications setup list - containing alllll sorts of options, for today - we're keeping it simple. Select Telegram. You'll be asked to present your API key - if you have that ready from our intro, skip to the next step. If you don't have it, it's a quick one.
Open Telegram, search for__ @BotFather__, send a message `/newbot`. Pick a name and username (username must end in "bot" as per instructions). BotFather gives you your API token. Copy it. Now paste it back into Terminal for your OpenClaw onboarding. This was a quick explination because it's easy to follow when using BotFather - it tells you most of this anyways!
If you want to know what Momo & I use - it's Discord - but i'll write why in another article soon and how its important to choose skills > agents and why Discord is perfect for this.
Step 6 - your first skills
Next up you're going to be prompted to setup your first skills - so hit yes and lets crack through this. you can use npm or bun here but for the sake of a mac mini in this example - hit select and continue on 'npm'. 
Provide a caption (optional)
next up - you'll be hit with a long old list of skills - we're just hitting 'skip for now' on these, we don't need that noise right now.  Provide a caption (optional) and finally - it will ask you to install 6 skills for google places and more - just hit 'no' on all of these, the final one being elevenlabs. 
again, more noise, just skip past.
Provide a caption (optional) 
last bit now, you'll be asked about enabling hooks. here - select all three, using arrow keys and spacebar again - and hit enter. these ones are needed to get you going! after this - you're gateway should start, you'll see terminal do its thing and you'll be ready for the final step... 
Step 7 - time to hatch
Provide a caption (optional) The time has come, for your bot to be born! Here, select hatch in TUI, which will wake your bot up for the first time within the Terminal app. If you get an HTTPS error here, check your Claude token for spaces. That's almost always the cause. Simple fix - just paste it again without any trailing spaces. You may need to rerun the onboarding though.
Step 8 - say hello & finish setting up Telegram
So, you've had the famous 'Wake up friend' and your new baby bot is asking what it's name and your name is! I usually send something like this and whip them straight to telegram to chat: 
"Hey, your name is [insertbotnamehere], my name is [your name], let's continue this conversation on Telegram. Here's my pairing key [pastekeyhere]."
Now, if you open up your bot conversation on Telegram (click the @ BotFather sent you!) It asks for a pairing key. Type that into the TUI message. Telegram should be connected and your bot will reply there.
That's your "holy shit" moment. Enjoy it. You now have an OpenClaw bot.
Final, Quick Additional Step - add Brave, Groq and QMD. 
Almost done. Now, just talk to your newly born bot and tell it to 'setup Brave Search - heres my API key and simply paste in your Brave Search key. 
Then your Groq key with the same kind of message. Your agent can now search the web and understand voice messages, and it does the hard work installing for you!  
Now, finish by installingthe QMD skill - before you start loading your agent up with conversations and tasks. When you install it halfway through, your agent struggles to keep up and often resets or forgets chat logs. Save yourself the headache. Get it in from the start and simply ask it to 'install the QMD skill' - it will do it for ya. 
Now? We move.
Make it yours - this is the bit that actually matters!
Most people skip this and then wonder why their agent sounds like a customer service bot. OpenClaw uses three files that define who your agent is: 
SOUL.md - your agent's personality. How it talks. What it cares about. Its style. 
USER.md - info about you. Your name, your job, your preferences, your weird habits. 
MEMORY.md - long term memory. Your agent updates this over time so it remembers things between conversations. 
You could write all of these yourself. Or you could do what I did. Let your agent interview you. Once your agent responds on Telegram, send something like:
"You just came online for the first time. I want you to ask me questions to get to know me - my name, what I do, my goals, how I want you to talk to me, what tools I use daily, what I need help with. Ask them one at a time. Then use my answers to fill out SOUL.md and USER.md."
Your agent runs through 10-15 questions. 
Answer honestly. 
Tell it your actual situation - your job, your side projects, your schedule, how casual you want it to be.
Top tip - reply with a voice note. Way faster and you'll give more natural answers than typing. By the end of this, your agent has proper context. It knows who you are. It remembers. This is the difference between a chatbot and something that actually feels like yours. 
Skills vs agents - this is where people waste money
Here's where most people go wrong. And I know because I went wrong here too.   You'll see setups online with five agents, ten agents, a "hivebrain" with agents talking to agents. Looks like Jarvis. Feels like the future. It's also expensive, confusing and - honestly - mostly bollocks. stay tuned for a follow up article all about how to setup skills and get the most out of your OpenClaw bot.  To finish - Every mistake I made so you don't have to 1. Paid per use instead of Claude Max. Burned through about $800 trying the Anthropic API, Kimi, Opus, running multiple agents on pay-per-use. Get the membership. Use the token. That's it. 2. Ran 8 agents on Telegram at the same time. Different brains, different context, constantly losing track. One agent with proper skills beats a squad of confused ones every time. 3. Spent hundreds on AWS servers. Remote setups, complicated configs. A Mac Mini next to your TV does the same job for less hassle. 4. Left my context files empty for a week. Wondered why my agent sounded like a call centre. Filled out SOUL.md and USER.md. Night and day difference. 5. Installed QMD halfway through. Agent kept resetting and losing chat logs. Install it from the start. 6. Ignored voice messages. Set up Groq on day one. Talking to your agent while you're on the move is a completely different experience. My agent transcribes voice notes while I'm on the move and I use it ten times more than typing. 7. Had a space in my Claude token. Got an HTTPS error that confused me for an hour. Check for trailing spaces. Simple fix.  If you liked this, give me a follow. Repost it. Bookmark it. Whatever helps. I'm new to writing articles and i'm pretty proud this is my first.  Questions? Drop them below. Happy to help.  If you want to go even deeper or learn some advanced skills, check out my friend__ @oliverhenry__. He has some brilliant articles on taking everything to the next step. 
Cheers,__ @jordymaui__
__AI Edge__
__@aiedge___
This AI destroys Clawdbot, and nobody's paying attention - here's how to set it up
TLDR: this AI is 10x BETTER than Clawdbot, and reading this now will put you ahead of 99% of people.
The reality is that Openclaw (clawd) has major bottlenecks that make it difficult for the average person to extract any value.
It's hard to set up, expensive to run, and has critical security risks.
If you've actually set up Openclaw, you know this to be true.
This article is the solution to all of Openclaw's problems.
I'm about to show you how to get all the benefits of agentic automation with zero complex setup, at no cost, and with 100% security.
At the very end of this article, I give this tool a weighted score of 1-10 across various categories - accessibility, value, impact, and privacy/security.
Spoiler alert: it ranked higher than Openclaw on most - stick around until the end to see my official ratings versus Openclaw.
Contents
l: Introduction
ll: Set up & Best Practices
lll: Real Workflows (exact prompts included)
IV: Valuable Tools & Resources
V: Final Thoughts
Introduction
So, what AI tool am I talking about?
ManusAI.
If you've experimented with Manus before, you know how good it is, and I'm about to show you how to further skyrocket your productivity beyond what you thought was possible.
For those who've never tested Manus before, think of it this way:
ChatGPT tells you what to do.
Manus takes action for you.
It can edit Google Docs/Spreadsheets, schedule automations, vibe code apps, conduct deep research, and much more.
This is your all-in-one personal AI assistant that lives on your computer with no terminal installation like Openclaw.
Getting Started
1. Head to https:// manus. im/app
2. Create Account
3. Done
It's that simple.
Once you have an account, you'll be greeted by a chatbox similar to those on other AI platforms.
Now, you can start prompting Manus to do things for you - feel free to start testing.
If you feel lost on what to use Manus for, don't worry - in section three, I'll show you real workflows with prompts you can copy/paste right now.
ManusAI Home
Set up & Best Practices - Getting the most out of Manus (5 tips)
1. How to pick your model - model selection matrix:
Manus 1.6 Lite: for everyday tasks (cheap)
Manus 1.6: agent for "medium" tasks (affordable)
Manus 1.6 Max: for complex workflows - vibe coding, design, etc. (expensive)
2.     Prompting 101
How to properly prompt agentic Manus models.
For me, I've found this prompting structure to be extremely reliable:
[Role] + [Agentic Task] + [Steps] + [Output format]
Example: Act as an Excel spreadsheet expert. I need you to edit this spreadsheet [paste link]. I want you to [insert tasks] and export the new spreadsheet as a Google spreadsheet instead of an Excel file.
Most people don't know this, but Manus also has a massive prompt library on the homepage.
Take advantage of these pre-built prompts.
Manus Prompt Library
3.     Connectors
To get the most out of your Manus prompts, enable connectors.
You can do this in Settings → Connectors.
The main connector you want to set up is "My Browser" - this allows Manus to take action in your browser.
Manus has 70+ connectors (Notion, Google Drive, Slack, GitHub, and more).
Go through them all and set up relevant connectors.
Connectors
4.     Manus Extension
Once you have enabled connectors, install the Manus Browser Operator.
This extension will give Manus hands and let it actually use the browser connection you just set up.
Here: https://manus. im/features/manus- browser-operator
Manus Extension
5.     Manus Skills
This is a brand new feature, and I love it.
Manus skills are like Claude Skills but for agents.
These Skills allow agents to automate repetitive tasks within specified instruction parameters.
Highly recommend spending time building Manus Skills.
Manus Skills
Real Workflows (exact prompts included)
Now that you know a bit about Manus, you're probably wondering how to use it in your daily workflows to boost productivity.
For this section, I want to run you through some of my personal workflows and their exact prompts/instruction sets.
1. Scheduled Tasks  (market research)
Manus is better than Clawdbot at this.
In Settings → Scheduled Tasks, you can schedule task automations you want Manus to run alongside your connectors.
For example, every single day at 9 am, I have Manus use my browser connection to scan the web and send me a morning crypto market research report.
I'm in the crypto markets, so market research reports are helpful as crypto moves very fast, but you can do this for literally anything.
Collating top AI news, scanning your Notion to-do lists, and more
Here's the exact prompt you can use to have Manus deliver a daily crypto market research report:
Use browser search to scan the last 24 hours of crypto news from credible sources such as CoinDesk, The Block, Cointelegraph, Bloomberg, Reuters, official project blogs, and major X accounts if relevant.
Identify only news that materially impacts markets, narratives, or positioning. Skip low-signal announcements.
Group findings into clear sections:
Market-moving news
Major protocol or ecosystem updates
Regulatory or macro developments
Notable funding, M&A, or institutional activity
For each item, include:
A one-sentence summary
Why it matters in plain English
Who is affected (BTC, ETH, specific sectors, or tokens if applicable)
Prioritize clarity, accuracy, and signal over speed or hype.
Keep the total output skimmable. Bullet points preferred. No filler.
2.     Stock Analysis Skill
As I mentioned in the previous section, Manus has some awesome Skills.
One of the Manus Skills I've been heavily using lately is a "stock analysis" skill.
This Skill essentially serves as my personal stock market research assistant.
It summarises company research, technical analysis/indicators, scans price APIs, and more.
You can add this Skill to your Manus now, here is the Skill . MD file:
YAML
name: stock-analysis
description: "Analyze stocks and companies using financial market data. Get company profiles, technical insights, price charts, insider holdings, and SEC filings for comprehensive stock research."
Stock Analysis
Comprehensive stock and company analysis using with real-time market data.
Core Capabilities
Company Research: Get company profiles, business info, executive teams
Technical Analysis: Access price charts, technical indicators, outlooks
Fundamental Analysis: Review insights, valuations, analyst ratings
Insider Activity: Track insider holdings and transactions
Regulatory Filings: Access SEC filing history and documents
Multi-Stock Comparison: Compare multiple stocks with chart data
Available APIs
Company Information
Yahoo/get_stock_profile - Company profile (business, industry, executives, contact)
Yahoo/get_stock_insights - Technical indicators, valuation, ratings, research reports
Trading & Market Data
Yahoo/get_stock_chart - Historical price data with customizable timeframes
Ownership & Compliance
Yahoo/get_stock_holders - Insider holdings and transactions
Yahoo/get_stock_sec_filing - SEC filing history (10-K, 10-Q, 8-K, etc.)
Common Workflows
1. Company Overview → Deep Dive
Plain Text
User: "Tell me about AAPL"
→ Yahoo/get_stock_profile (business summary, industry, employees)
→ Yahoo/get_stock_insights (technical outlook, valuation, ratings)
→ Yahoo/get_stock_chart (recent price performance)
2. Technical Analysis → Fundamental Check
Plain Text
User: "Is TSLA a good buy?"
→ Yahoo/get_stock_chart (price trends, support/resistance)
→ Yahoo/get_stock_insights (technical outlook, target price, rating)
→ Yahoo/get_stock_profile (verify business fundamentals)
3. Insider Activity Analysis
Plain Text
User: "Show me insider trading for NVDA"
→ Yahoo/get_stock_holders (insider transactions)
→ Yahoo/get_stock_profile (context about executives)
→ Yahoo/get_stock_insights (check if aligned with outlook)
4. Due Diligence Package
Plain Text
User: "Full analysis of MSFT"
→ Yahoo/get_stock_profile (company background)
→ Yahoo/get_stock_insights (analyst ratings, valuation)
→ Yahoo/get_stock_chart (historical performance)
→ Yahoo/get_stock_holders (insider sentiment)
→ Yahoo/get_stock_sec_filing (recent regulatory filings)
5. Multi-Stock Comparison
Plain Text
User: "Compare AAPL vs MSFT vs GOOGL"
→ Yahoo/get_stock_chart (with comparisons parameter)
→ Yahoo/get_stock_insights (for each symbol)
→ Compare metrics side-by-side
6. Sector Research
Plain Text
User: "Analyze tech stocks: AAPL, NVDA, AMD"
→ Yahoo/get_stock_profile (each company's focus area)
→ Yahoo/get_stock_insights (sector comparison scores)
→ Yahoo/get_stock_chart (relative performance)
Key Parameters
Common Parameters
symbol: Stock ticker symbol (e.g., "AAPL", "TSLA")
region: Market region (US, GB, JP, etc.) - default: US
lang: Response language (en-US, zh-Hant-HK, etc.) - default: en-US
Chart-Specific
interval: 1m, 5m, 15m, 30m, 1h, 1d, 1wk, 1mo
range: 1d, 5d, 1mo, 3mo, 6mo, 1y, 2y, 5y, 10y, ytd, max
comparisons: Compare with other symbols (e.g., "^GSPC,MSFT")
events: Include dividends, splits, earnings (div, split, earn)
Key Data Points
Profile Data
Business summary and industry classification
Employee count and executive team
Contact information and website
Sector and industry metrics
Insights Data
Technical outlook: Short/intermediate/long-term signals
Valuation: Relative value vs sector/market
Key technicals: Support, resistance, stop-loss levels
Ratings: Analyst recommendations and target prices
Company metrics: Innovation, hiring, sustainability scores
Research reports: Analyst reports and summaries
Significant events: Recent developments
Chart Data
OHLC (Open, High, Low, Close) prices
Volume data
Adjusted close prices
52-week high/low
Current trading period info
Holder Data
Insider names and positions
Transaction dates and descriptions
Holdings quantity and value
Relationship to company
Filing Data
Filing type (10-K, 10-Q, 8-K, etc.)
Filing date and title
EDGAR URLs for full documents
Exhibits and related documents
When to Use This Skill
ALWAYS invoke APIs when users mention:
Stock symbols: "AAPL", "TSLA", "$MSFT", "stock price", "stock info"
Analysis requests: "analyze", "research", "look into", "tell me about [STOCK]"
Comparison: "compare", "vs", "versus", "which is better"
Price queries: "price", "chart", "performance", "trend", "up or down"
Insider activity: "insider", "holdings", "who owns", "buying/selling"
Filings: "SEC filing", "10-K", "10-Q", "earnings report", "financial statements"
Company info: "what does [company] do", "who runs", "about [company]"
Required API combinations:
General stock questions → MUST call Yahoo/get_stock_profile + Yahoo/get_stock_insights
Price/chart mentions → MUST include Yahoo/get_stock_chart
Investment decisions → MUST call all three: chart + insights + profile
Multiple stocks → MUST use comparison parameters in chart API
Insider questions → MUST call Yahoo/get_stock_holders + profile for context
Best Practices
Start broad, then drill down - Profile first, then specific data
Context matters - Combine profile with technical data for better insights
Use comparisons - Chart API supports multi-symbol comparison
Regional stocks - Set region/lang for non-US markets
Time relevance - Adjust chart range based on user's timeframe
Insider context - Combine holder data with profile for complete picture
API Reference
Full parameter specs and response schemas:
yahoo-api.md
3.     Mail Manus
Lastly, everyone should be using Mail Manus.
One of Openclaw's big selling points is that you can text it from apps like Telegram.
Well, Manus' version of this is Mail Manus.
Mail Manus lets you trigger Manus tasks by forwarding emails to a unique bot address. Instead of switching between your inbox and the Manus app, you can delegate work directly from your email and receive results back via email.
While it doesn't have the full capabilities of Clawdbot, it's a big unlock for most people and essentially serves as a personal email assistant.
I've been using this for a while (10+ months), and it is one of my main Manus use cases.
Without leaking my email data, here is the instruction process for exactly how I turned Mail Manus into my personal email assistant:
1
Get Your Unique Address
- Find your dedicated Manus Mail address in your settings 
2
Forward for Triage
- Set up "Forwarding Rules" in your main email for specific keywords (e.g., "Invoice," "Partnership," "Draft"). This sends only the "work" to Manus.
3
Blind Copy (BCC) for Tasks
- When you receive an email you don't have time to deal with, forward it to your Manus Mail. This acts as a "trigger" for Manus to start working on it.
4
Define Processing Logic
- Prompt Manus: "Whenever an email arrives at my Manus Mail, summarize the key request and draft a response in a Markdown file for me to review."
5
Batch Review
- Instead of checking 100 emails, you check one summary report from Manus that lists everything it processed and the drafts it prepared
Valuable Tools & Resources
1.    Manus Academy: An official resource by the Manus team on how to effectively use their AI
https:// academy. Manus. im/
Manus Academy
2.     Manus Skills 101: An official resource by the Manus team on building effective Skills
https://manus. im/docs/ features/skills
Manus Skills
3.     Manus Tools: A huge GitHub library of prompts/tools
https://gist.github. com/jlia0/db0a9695b3ca7609c9b1a08dcbf872c9
Manus Tools
Final Thoughts
Average Joe Ratings - Openclaw versus Manus:
Accessibility
Openclaw 4/10 | Requires CLI, Node ≥22, channel config. Hours/days to get running and possibly a dedicated device/servers.
Manus 8/10 | Straightforward setup - just create an account, free mobile app, and web use
Value
Openclaw 5/10 | Open source, but hidden costs add up: API calls, hardware, time investment.
Manus 7/10 | For the average person, you'll get a ton of free value, and paid plans are incredibly cheap compared to Openclaw costs.
Privacy/Security
Openclaw 2/10 | Risk of prompt injections, requires technical expertise to secure properly. One misconfiguration = complete compromise.
Manus 7/10 | Just as secure as other AI tools like ChatGPT - of course, this is a bit subjective, and anytime you give your data to an AI, there is risk of data leaks/misuse, but nowhere near the level of risk as complete device control like Openclaw.
Impact
Openclaw 9/10 | If it works safely, genuinely transformative. 24/7 AI assistant across your entire desktop.
Manus 5/10 | Genuinely useful, will save most people time/money, but can't do nearly as much as Openclaw in terms of sheer desktop control capabilities.
Final Overall Scores
Openclaw: 5/10
Manus: 6.75/10
Outro
I hope you found value in this article.
for weekly AI content like this.If you did, be sure to follow me__@milesdeutscher__
.If you enjoy AI deep dives, I'm posting 3x/week articles on my AI-research account__@aiedge___
To show support, please Like/Repost this article
__Nozz__
__@NoahEpstein___
The $100K/Month Business Model Nobody's Talking About
The automation space just had its iPhone moment.
And most people are still selling flip phones.
I've been deep in OpenClaw for the past few weeks. Running it for my agency. Testing it with clients. And I'm going to be honest with you - this changes the math on everything I've been sharing about automation.
Here's the full breakdown.
---
The Old Way Is Dead. Here's What Replaced It.
For the last two years, the automation game was simple. Learn n8n or Make. Build linear workflows. Trigger → action → action → output. Connect tools. Deliver to client. Charge $5-15K. Repeat.
That model still works. I still use it. But it has a ceiling.
Linear automations don't think. They execute a sequence. If something unexpected happens - a weird email format, a client responding differently than expected, a document that doesn't match the template - the workflow breaks. You fix it. It breaks again. You fix it again.
The new model is different. And it's not a small difference.
Autonomous agents don't follow a script. They think through problems.
When you give Claude Code a task with the right tools and the right CLAUDE.md file, it doesn't just execute step A then step B. It evaluates the situation, decides the best approach, adapts when something goes wrong, and improves the workflow every single time it runs.
That's not automation. That's an employee who never sleeps.
And OpenClaw just packaged that into something any business can use.
---
What OpenClaw Actually Is (For Those Living Under a Rock)
OpenClaw is a self-hosted AI assistant that lives inside your existing messaging apps - WhatsApp, Telegram, Slack, Discord, iMessage, Teams. Same assistant, same memory, everywhere.
It's not another chatbot. It's not a wrapper around ChatGPT.
It has persistent memory. It learns your preferences. It remembers what you told it three weeks ago. It messages YOU first with morning briefings, email flags, calendar prep, and action items.
But here's where it gets insane for businesses:
It has a skill system.
Skills are essentially pre-built capabilities you can plug in. ClawdHub has 200+ of them. Email triage. Calendar management. Slack monitoring. Document processing. CRM updates. 
(Make sure you do some security check before using any of these)
And the skills are composable. Stack them. Customize them. Build new ones.
One user runs 3 AI agents across 3 different machines. When one agent was running slow, another agent SSH'd in, diagnosed the issue, and fixed it. Without a human touching anything.
Read that again.
An AI agent debugged and fixed another AI agent. Autonomously.
---
The $100K/Month Business Model
Here's where the money is.
Enterprises are watching OpenClaw blow up. They WANT it. They see the demos. They see what it can do. They read the posts.
But they can't figure out the tech.
Most people download it, hit a wall at day 2-3, and give up. The setup isn't hard. The skills are what make it actually useful. And customizing those skills for specific business use cases? That's the gap.
The same intelligence gap I've been talking about for a year.
Businesses with money don't want to learn Docker. They don't want to configure skill hubs. They don't want to debug WebSocket connections. They want someone to show up, demonstrate value, and handle everything.
That someone is you.
The math:
* Enterprise sees OpenClaw doing email, calendar, and Slack automation
* They want it but don't know Docker from a doorknob
* You show up with a demo adapted to THEIR specific workflow
* You handle setup + infrastructure + skill implementation + training
* → Charge $10-20K depending on company size
* 10% markup if you're purchasing the hardware for them
* Monthly retainer for maintenance, new skills, and optimisation
5-10 clients. $10-20K each. That's $50-200K in implementation revenue. Add monthly retainers at $2-5K per client and the recurring compounds fast.
---
Why This Hits Different for Law Firms, PE, and Accounting
I've been saying it for months - boring industries pay better than tech startups. This is where that thesis gets proven.
Law firms specifically. Here's why:
Mac Studio + local models = data never leaves their building.
That's not a feature. That's a compliance requirement.
Every law firm I've spoken to has the same problem. They need AI. They know it'll save them hundreds of hours. But they can't use ChatGPT because client data cannot touch a third-party server. It's not a preference - it's a legal obligation.
OpenClaw running locally with Ollama solves this instantly. Self-hosted. On their hardware. In their building. Under their control.
Now layer in the skills:
* Email triage that sorts client communications by urgency and matter
* Document review that flags key clauses and summarises contracts
* Calendar management that preps case briefs before every meeting
* Invoice processing that matches billable hours to matters automatically
A paralegal spending 6 hours a day on admin work now spends 45 minutes. The rest of the day goes to actual legal work the thing the firm hired them for.
Sound familiar? It's the employee amplification framework. Same pitch. Different tool. Bigger outcome.
And the same math close works perfectly:
"Your team of 4 paralegals spends 24 combined hours a day on document admin. At $35/hour loaded cost, that's $840/day. $4,200/week. $218,400/year. On copy-paste work. We implement OpenClaw with custom skills for your practice areas, and that number drops to under $40K. You save $178,000 annually and your team actually does the work you hired them for."
The deal closes itself.
---
Two Lanes. Both Print Money.
Here's what most people are missing. There are now two distinct lanes in the automation space, and the smartest operators are using both.
Lane 1: Linear Automations (n8n + Synta)
This is the foundation. Simple, predictable, reliable workflows. Trigger fires → actions execute → output delivered.
When a lead fills out a form → enrich the data → score it → route to the right rep → send a personalized follow-up. Linear. Predictable. Works every time.
And here's the thing - building these just got absurdly easy.
Hook Synta into Claude as an MCP server. That's it. Now you speak plain English to Claude: "Build me a workflow that takes new Typeform submissions, enriches the company data with Apollo, scores the lead based on company size and industry, and sends a personalised email from my Gmail."
Claude asks a few clarifying questions. You answer in plain English. It builds the entire end-to-end workflow on your n8n instance. Tests it. Fixes any issues. You have a 99% complete workflow in minutes.
Not hours. Not days. Minutes.
That alone is a $5-10K service for businesses who don't know this exists. And most don't.
Lane 2: Autonomous Agents (Claude Code + OpenClaw)
This is the next level. Agents that don't just execute - they think, adapt, and improve.
When you set up Claude Code with the right CLAUDE.md file, the right tools, and the right access, something different happens. You're not building a workflow. You're deploying a digital employee.
It encounters an edge case? It figures out the solution. The data format changes? It adapts. A tool goes down? It finds an alternative approach.
And here's the part nobody's talking about: every time it iterates, it gets better. The CLAUDE.md file acts as its operating manual. Set it up correctly and the agent literally improves its own processes over time.
OpenClaw takes this and makes it accessible. The skill hub system means you're not starting from zero. You're customizing pre-built capabilities for specific business contexts.
Email triage for a PE firm hits completely different than email triage for a dentist. The skill is the same foundation. The customization is where the value lives.
And that customisation? That's a $10-20K afternoon once you understand how skill hubs work.
---
The Real Moat: Communication, Not Code
Here's what's wild about where we are right now.
You don't need to know how to code. At all.
Everything in this space revolves around communication skills. If you can clearly articulate what you want done - in plain English - the AI builds it for you. Whether that's Claude Code creating tools, Synta building n8n workflows, or OpenClaw configuring skills.
The person who can sit with a law firm partner for 30 minutes, understand their pain, translate that into clear instructions for an AI system, and deliver a working solution - that person is worth $20K per engagement.
The technical barrier to automation hit zero.
The communication barrier is the new moat.
This is why I keep saying: everyone's learning AI automation. Almost nobody's learning how to sell it. The people making $50K+/month aren't better at building. They're better at understanding business problems and articulating solutions.
---
How to Package This and Start Selling
Here's the framework. Practical. Actionable. Use it tomorrow.
Step 1: Build Your Demo
Set up OpenClaw on your own machine. Configure 3-5 skills that apply to your target industry. Get it running smoothly.
When you walk into a meeting and pull out your phone, show them YOUR OpenClaw instance handling emails, summarising documents, managing your calendar - they get it instantly. No slides needed. No pitch deck. Just "look at this."
Step 2: Pick Your Vertical
Law firms. PE shops. Accounting firms. Healthcare operations. Pick one. Learn their workflows. Understand their compliance requirements. Speak their language.
Specialisation beats generalisation every time.
Step 3: Run Discovery
"Walk me through what happens when a new client reaches out right now."
Then shut up for 20 minutes. Let them describe every manual step, every bottleneck, every frustration.
You'll find $50-200K in annual waste within the first conversation.
Step 4: Present the Math
Don't pitch the tech. Present the numbers.
"Your team spends X hours on Y. That costs Z per year. We reduce that to A hours. You save B annually. Implementation is C."
When B is 10x larger than C, the deal closes itself.
Step 5: Implement + Retain
Handle everything. Hardware sourcing if needed (10% markup). OpenClaw setup. Skill configuration. Custom skill development. Team training.
Then lock in a monthly retainer for ongoing optimisation, new skill deployment, and support.
$2-10K/month per client. Recurring. Compounding. Predictable.
---
The Window Is Open
6 months from now, every automation agency will be offering this.
Right now, almost nobody is.
The businesses that need this are already searching for it. They're reading the posts. They're watching the demos. They're trying to figure it out themselves and failing at day 2.
You can be the person who shows up with the solution.
One more thing - if you want to go even further, run Synta alongside OpenClaw. Use Synta + n8n for the predictable linear workflows. Use OpenClaw + Claude Code for the autonomous agent layer. Stack them and you have a full-spectrum automation offering that covers everything from simple Zapier replacements to enterprise-grade AI employees.
That's not a service offering. That's a business.
The learning curve is the only thing between you and $10-20K deals.
And the learning curve is shorter than you think.
My Pleasure
__Guri Singh__
__@heygurisingh__
How to Set Up an AI Stock Screener That Runs Every Morning Before Market Open
Replace your $32,000/year Bloomberg Terminal with Python, free APIs, and Claude AI
By Guri Singh |__ @heygurisingh__
The $32,000 Problem
A Bloomberg Terminal costs $31,980 per year. Let that sink in. That is $2,665 every single month for access to financial data, stock screening tools, and market analytics. And the price went up 6.5% this year alone.
Meanwhile, Wall Street is quietly panicking. A 2025 industry survey found that roughly 34% of hedge funds and asset managers plan to reduce or eliminate Bloomberg seats in the next 18 months. Why? Because AI just made 80% of what Bloomberg does available for free.
Last week, someone built a functional Bloomberg Terminal clone using Perplexity Computer in a single afternoon. The viral post hit 7.5 million views on X. The message was loud and clear -- you do not need to spend $32K to get institutional-grade market intelligence anymore.
In this guide, I am going to show you how to build an AI-powered stock screener that runs automatically every morning before market open. It pulls real-time data, screens stocks using institutional-grade criteria, uses Claude AI for sentiment analysis, and sends you a clean daily briefing.
Total cost: $0 to $20/month. Let us get into it.
What You Are Building
Before we touch any code, here is exactly what your AI stock screener will do every single morning:
FeatureWhat It DoesPre-Market Data PullFetches price, volume, fundamentals for S&P 500 stocks at 8:30 AM ETMulti-Factor ScreeningFilters stocks using P/E ratio, RSI, volume spikes, moving average crossovers, and earnings proximityAI Sentiment LayerClaude AI analyzes recent news headlines for each flagged stock and assigns a sentiment scoreDaily Email BriefingSends you a clean report with top picks, key metrics, and AI commentary before market open at 9:30 AMWatchlist TrackingMonitors your custom watchlist for breakout signals and unusual activity
Think of it as your personal junior analyst who never sleeps, never misses a signal, and works for free.
The Tech Stack (All Free)
Here is everything you need. No paid subscriptions. No premium APIs. No Bloomberg required.
ToolPurposeCostPython 3.10+Core scripting languageFreeyfinanceMarket data from Yahoo FinanceFree (open-source)pandasData manipulation and filteringFreeClaude API (Haiku)AI sentiment analysisFree tier / ~$0.25/daysmtplib (Python)Email deliveryFree (Gmail SMTP)cron / Task SchedulerDaily automationFree (built-in)GitHub ActionsCloud-based alternative schedulerFree (2,000 min/month)
Total monthly cost: If you stay within Claude Haiku's free tier, this entire setup costs you literally nothing. Even if you use the API heavily, you are looking at $5 to $20/month max. That is 0.06% of what Bloomberg charges.
Step-by-Step Setup Guide
Step 1: Install Your Dependencies
Open your terminal and create a new project folder. Then install everything you need with a single command.
Copymkdir ai-stock-screener && cd ai-stock-screener python -m venv venv source venv/bin/activate  # On Windows: venv\Scripts\activate  pip install yfinance pandas anthropic schedule python-dotenv
Create a .env file for your API keys:
CopyANTHROPIC_API_KEY=your_claude_api_key_here EMAIL_ADDRESS=your_email@gmail.com EMAIL_PASSWORD=your_app_password_here
Important: For Gmail, you will need to generate an App Password from your Google Account security settings. Regular passwords will not work with SMTP.
Step 2: Build the Screening Filters
This is where your screener becomes institutional-grade. We are applying the same multi-factor filtering that hedge fund analysts use at firms like Bridgewater and Renaissance Technologies.
What each filter does:
* P/E between 5-25: Eliminates overvalued hype stocks and companies with no earnings
* RSI 30-70: Avoids overbought and oversold extremes -- catches stocks in the momentum sweet spot
* Volume 1.5x above average: Institutional money is flowing in. Smart money always shows up in volume first
* Price above 50-day SMA: Confirms the stock is in an uptrend, not a falling knife
* Golden cross (20 SMA > 50 SMA): One of the most reliable bullish signals in technical analysis
Step 3: Add the AI Sentiment Layer
This is what separates your screener from every other Python script on GitHub. We are using Claude AI to analyze news sentiment for each stock that passes the technical filters. This gives you a qualitative edge that even Bloomberg's built-in tools cannot replicate as cheaply.
Why Claude Haiku? It is fast (sub-second responses), cheap (fractions of a cent per call), and accurate enough for headline sentiment. You are making roughly 10 API calls per day. That is effectively free.
Step 4: Build the Email Report
Your screener needs to deliver results to you in a clean, actionable format. No dashboard to check. No app to open. Just a concise email waiting in your inbox when you wake up.
The build_html_report function formats your results into a clean HTML table with color-coded sentiment scores, sparkline price direction, and key metrics. I will include the full template in the GitHub repo linked at the end.
Step 5: Automate It (The "Set and Forget" Part)
Now the magic part. You want this running every single morning at 8:30 AM ET, 60 minutes before market open. Here are three options depending on your setup.
Option A: Cron Job (Mac/Linux)
Open terminal and type crontab -e, then add this line:
Copy30 8 * * 1-5 cd /path/to/ai-stock-screener && /path/to/venv/bin/python__ ____screener.py__ >> logs/screener.log 2>&1
This runs Monday through Friday at 8:30 AM. The logs capture any errors for debugging.
Option B: Windows Task Scheduler
Open Task Scheduler, create a new basic task, set the trigger to daily at 8:30 AM on weekdays, and point the action to your Python executable with__ ____screener.py__ as the argument.
Option C: GitHub Actions (Cloud -- No Computer Required)
This is the best option if you want it running even when your laptop is off. Create a .github/workflows/screener.yml file:
Pro tip: GitHub Actions gives you 2,000 free minutes per month. Your screener takes roughly 3 to 5 minutes to run. That is 100+ runs per month for free, more than you will ever need.
Advanced: Custom Screening Strategies
The basic setup above is already more powerful than what 90% of retail traders use. But here are some advanced filters you can add to go deeper:
Earnings Proximity Filter
Insider Buying Detection
Copy# Check for recent insider purchases insider = stock.insider_transactions recent_buys = insider[     insider['Text'].str.contains('Purchase', na=False) ] # If executives are buying their own stock, pay attention
Sector Rotation Tracking
Add a sector-level filter that identifies which sectors are seeing the most capital inflow. When money rotates from tech into healthcare, your screener should catch it.
Bloomberg vs. Your AI Screener
Here is an honest comparison of what you just built versus what Wall Street pays $32,000/year for:
The honest truth: Bloomberg still wins on real-time millisecond data, fixed income coverage, and the chat network that connects 325,000 finance professionals. If you are a high-frequency trader at a bulge bracket bank, you still need Bloomberg. But if you are a retail investor, independent trader, or small fund manager? You just built 80% of Bloomberg's stock screening capability for 0.06% of the price.
Common Issues and Fixes
* yfinance returning empty data: Yahoo Finance occasionally rate-limits requests. Add a time.sleep(0.5) between each ticker fetch and implement retry logic.
* Gmail SMTP authentication failure: Make sure you are using an App Password, not your regular Gmail password. Go to Google Account > Security > 2-Factor Auth > App Passwords.
* Cron job not running: Use absolute paths for everything, including your Python executable and script path. Verify your crontab with crontab -l.
* Claude API returning malformed JSON: Wrap your JSON parsing in a try/except block and add a fallback. LLMs occasionally include markdown backticks in their response -- strip those before parsing.
* GitHub Actions timing is off: GitHub Actions cron uses UTC time. 8:30 AM ET = 12:30 PM UTC during EDT and 1:30 PM UTC during EST. Adjust accordingly.
The Bottom Line
You just built a system that would have cost $32,000/year at Bloomberg, required a team of quant analysts to maintain, and taken weeks to set up through traditional enterprise channels.
Your version took 2 hours. It costs virtually nothing. And because you own every line of code, you can customize it in ways that Bloomberg's rigid interface could never allow.
The finance industry is going through the same disruption that happened to newspapers, taxis, and travel agencies. The tools that used to require institutional budgets are becoming accessible to everyone. AI is the great equalizer.
Your move: Set this up this weekend. Run it for a week. Watch how the AI sentiment scores correlate with actual price movement. Then start tweaking the filters to match your trading strategy.
The hedge fund analysts making $200K per year are using tools that are barely more sophisticated than what you just built. The difference is, they had a Bloomberg Terminal and you have Python plus Claude.
Now you both have the same edge.
DISCLAIMER: This guide is for educational purposes only. Nothing in this article constitutes financial advice. Always do your own research and consult a qualified financial advisor before making investment decisions. Past performance of any screening strategy does not guarantee future results.
__jacob__

__@jacobgrowth__
how to ACTUALLY make money with ai yt automation...
youtube shorts in 2026 is a money printer. here's why nobody's actually using it right.
everyone who tried this already has the same story.
found a faceless channel, ran some ai voiceover, uploaded five videos, got 800 views, checked adsense, saw $0.12, closed the tab forever.
that's not the model failing. that's not understanding what the model actually is.
shorts adsense was never the point. it was always a distraction.
the algorithm is doing something most people never figure out
shorts isn't a content platform. it's a satisfaction loop.
the algorithm isn't surfacing your video because someone searched for it. it's running a prediction model across a candidate pool and asking one question over and over:
if i show this video to this viewer right now, how much satisfaction will it produce?
it's exactly not views neither is it watch time, it's satisfaction per impression.
and in shorts, you have about two seconds to answer that question before the swipe happens.
that's the entire game at the top of the funnel. did they hold past the first frame?
after that it asks: did they loop it? did they share it? did they go find the channel?
most faceless short form channels treat shorts like chopped-up long form. the algorithm knows the difference immediately. a 90-second video with a slow intro doesn't recover. there's no recovery. the hook is the content.
the clusters work differently too. every niche has its own fingerprint  the exact length that gets rewarded, the hook format that generates holds, the emotional trigger that makes people loop instead of swipe.
finance shorts look nothing like motivation shorts. motivation shorts look nothing like true crime shorts.
if you're producing without studying the fingerprint first, you're guessing. and guessing at volume just means failing faster.
here's where the actual money is
shorts rpm is bad. always has been. probably always will be.
the format doesn't support the ad inventory that makes long form adsense worthwhile. chasing shorts monetization through adsense alone is a losing game and the math never works in your favor early.
but here's the thing nobody talks about:
shorts at volume, across multiple platforms simultaneously, pointed at funded campaign briefs  that's a completely different equation.
content rewards is where this model actually makes financial sense. brands post campaigns with real budgets. you submit content that fits the brief. you get paid per verified thousand views. no cold outreach, no invoices, no waiting for platform thresholds to unlock.
a short doing 200k combined views across platforms at a decent campaign rate pays out in a way that adsense on shorts never would.
the key phrase there is combined views across platforms. one short on youtube only is a weak signal. that same short on youtube shorts + tiktok + instagram reels, posted simultaneously, running against a content rewards brief  that's the model.
same video with a  wider footprint + two revenue streams at once.
the stack
most people never get here because they solve the creation problem and ignore everything after it.
you can automate the script. you can automate the voiceover. you can automate the edit. and then you manually log into youtube, then tiktok, then instagram, and upload the same video three times.
that's not automation. that's five jobs with an ai assistant for one of them.
the whole thing breaks at the upload screen. that's where 90% of faceless channels quietly die not from bad content but from the operator burning out on manual distribution before the flywheel has any chance to spin up.
claude code handles production
this is where the content gets made.
claude code runs batched scripting. you give it your niche and your cluster research the hook format that gets holds, the length your cluster rewards, the emotional trigger that drives loops and it produces scripts in bulk. not one at a time. fifty.
the unlock is building the context prompt once. niche, tone, hook structure, pacing, what top performers in your cluster look like. load that once and every batch run outputs aligned content without re-explaining anything.
shorts scripts are short. which means you can produce a month of content in a single session if the system is set up right.
postiz handles distribution
this is the piece that makes the whole thing real.
postiz is open-source publishing infrastructure built for serious multi-channel automation. not a basic scheduler. the difference is in the assumption baked into how it was built.
traditional schedulers assume a human sitting there planning week by week. postiz assumes you queued 200 videos in one session and need them distributed across six platforms automatically with zero manual input. that's the exact use case here.
youtube shorts, tiktok, instagram reels, twitter one piece of content, every platform, on automated schedules. you load the queue once and walk away.
and because it's built for automation pipelines, claude code can hand off directly to postiz once a batch is done. scripting to multi-platform publishing with no manual step in between.
your channel posts every day whether you open your laptop or not. that's not scheduling. that's infrastructure.
postiz setup guide:
choose a plan.. 
1. sign up at__ ____postiz.com__
2. connect your tiktok account (and any other social platforms) through the oauth flow.
3.generate an api key from your account settings for use with openclaw and the cli.
another method,
1. ensure you have docker installed on your server or local machine.
2. clone the Postiz repository from github.
3. follow the docket deployment instructions in the documentation.
4. access the web interface and connect your social media accounts.
5. generate your api key for external integrations.
installing the postiz agent cli
for ai agent integration, install the postiz cli globally:
then set your api key as an environment variable (POSTIZ_API_KEY) and test the connection by running: postiz integrations:list
this should display all your connected social media platforms with their integration ids, which you’ll need for scheduling posts.
content rewards is the monetization layer
once the pipeline is live, you browse content rewards every couple weeks and match briefs to your niche.
then you run a batch with that brief's topic as the input. same pipeline. same distribution. different topic.
it's the same videos and you get paid impressions on top of organic.
the marginal cost of pointing the system at a campaign brief is nearly zero once everything is already built.
the production sprint
build the pipeline. then sprint hard.
weeks one and two you dial everything in. study the top 50 channels in your cluster. extract the fingerprint  exact hook format, average length, what emotional beat lands at the end of the loop. get your claude code prompts outputting clean, aligned scripts. set up postiz across every platform. stress-test the full chain from script to published post.
weeks three and four you produce aggressively. 200+ finished pieces queued. this is the one period where it's actually heavy. it's meant to be.
then you step back. one short per day per platform. automatically. for months.
consistency stops being a willpower problem. it becomes a calendar setting.
what you actually need to study first
before you run a single batch, pull the top performing shorts in your niche from the last 90 days and extract:
the hook format. question, shock stat, visual disruption, pattern interrupt — which one gets holds in your cluster?
the exact second where most loops happen. that's your payoff moment and it tells you where the structure needs to land.
average length of what's getting pushed vs what dies on upload.
cover frame language. what triggers the hold signal before the video even starts?
which topics are inside the active satisfaction cluster right now vs played out.
that fingerprint is your brief. load it into claude code as standing context and every script that comes out is already aligned with what the algorithm expects to reward.
you can be original. you have to be. but originality inside the cluster beats originality that ignores it every time.
being honest
this isn't passive from day one.
the prompt engineering takes real iteration. connecting the pipeline takes a weekend of actual work. content rewards only pays meaningfully at volume which means the sprint has to happen before the money shows up.
what you're not doing after it's built: logging into five platforms every day, uploading the same video six times manually, burning out after three weeks because the process got exhausting, waiting nine months for adsense thresholds to unlock on a shorts channel.
you're running experiments at a volume a manual creator can't touch. the algorithm learns what your channel is faster. the compounding starts earlier.
this is a volume game. the pipeline is how you actually play a volume game without it destroying you.
what the full thing looks like when it's running
produce 200+ shorts in a sprint using claude code.
deploy across every platform simultaneously via postiz on automated schedules.
point the same pipeline at content rewards briefs for per-view payouts that make the short form math actually work.
let the organic flywheel build on top.
same videos. compounding across platforms. two revenue streams running at the same time. one system. nearly zero marginal cost to add another 100 videos to the queue.
that's the model.
not uploading one video and checking adsense the next morning hoping something changed.
ai agent used (postiz)->__https://clawhub.ai/nevo-david/postiz__
__https://platform.postiz.com/__
__Tom__
__@tomcrawshaw01__
The last n8n tutorial you'll ever need (2026 edition)
I've been building automations for 8+ years. $25M in client revenue across Klaviyo, Zapier, GoHighLevel...you name it.  For the last two years, n8n has been my primary tool.  This is everything I know...
But first, I need to address the elephant in the room.
Claude Code is everywhere right now.
Your feed is probably jammed with Claude Code this and Ralph that.
Don't get me wrong,  it's a great tool and I use it myself.
But here's what most people miss:
Claude Code helps you build things.
n8n runs things, 24/7, without you touching it.
Different tools. Different jobs.
Claude Code is powerful. But you're staring at a terminal, trusting the code works.
n8n shows you everything. Data flows node to node and you can see exactly what's happening.
For most people, that visual feedback is what makes automation finally click.
This guide is for people who want the second thing.
Maybe you've heard about n8n and want to try it.
Maybe you started and got overwhelmed.
Maybe you've watched tutorials but nothing clicked.
This is where you get unstuck.
No nonsense, no 47-hour video course.
Just the 20% of n8n that gets you 80% of the results.
Let's goooo!
Spend 10 Minutes on This First (It'll Save You Hours)
Here's where most people screw up:
They find a cool tool, get excited, and start building.
Three hours later they have a tangled mess that doesn't work.
The problem isn't the tool. It's that they tried to automate chaos.
Before you touch n8n, you need to understand the process you're automating.
Grab a piece of paper and answer these questions:
What triggers it? What event kicks off this process? An email? A form submission? A specific time of day?
What are the inputs? What data do you need to start? Where does it come from?
Who's involved? Does this process pass between people? Between departments?
What tools are used? What apps are involved? CRM? Email? Spreadsheets? Slack?
What happens at each stage? Walk through every step. What decisions get made? What data gets transformed?
What's the ideal output? What does "done" look like? A sent email? An updated record? A notification?
What could go wrong? Where are the failure points? What happens if data is missing? If an API times out?
How much time does this take manually? Be honest. This helps you prioritize what's worth automating.
Should You Even Automate This?
Not everything should be automated. Before you build anything, ask yourself:
Is it repetitive? If you do it once a year, don't automate it. If you do it 50 times a day, automate it yesterday.
Is it process-driven or iterative? Process-driven tasks follow predictable steps, perfect for automation. Iterative tasks (like content creation) require back-and-forth with a human. Those need a different approach.
Is the process stable? If the process changes every week, automating it creates more work, not less. Nail down the process first.
What's the cost of failure? Automating your social media queue? Low stakes. Automating customer billing? High stakes. Build accordingly.
If you answered yes to the first three and the stakes aren't sky-high, you've got a good candidate.
Now let's talk about the tool.
What is n8n (And Why Should You Use It)?
Okay, so you've mapped out your process.
You know what you want to build.
Now you need a tool to build it.
n8n is a workflow automation platform.
When something happens in one app, n8n can automatically do something in another app.
New lead fills out your form? n8n adds them to your CRM, sends a Slack notification, and triggers an email sequence, all without you lifting a finger.
Think of it like digital plumbing for your business.
Here's why I use it over other tools:
Visual canvas. You see data flow node to node. This is why it clicks faster than code-based tools.
You own your data. Unlike Zapier or Make, you can self-host n8n. Your workflows, your server, your control.
400+ integrations. Gmail, Slack, Notion, Airtable, OpenAI, if it has an API, n8n probably has a node for it.
Built-in AI. Connect GPT-5, Claude, or any LLM directly into your workflows.
Cost-effective. Self-hosted can run for under $6/month. Even n8n Cloud is cheaper than Zapier at scale.
Convinced? Good. Let's get you set up.
Getting Set Up (Two Options)
You've got two paths here.
Pick the one that fits your situation.
Option 1: n8n Cloud (Easiest)
Go to__ ____n8n.cloud__, sign up, and start building.
Starter plan is around €20/month. You'll be running workflows within 10 minutes.
This is what I recommend if you just want to learn without server headaches.
Option 2: Self-Hosted (Cheapest Long-Term)
You can run n8n on your own server for as little as $6/month using a VPS like__ Hostinger.__
It's a one-click install. No terminal commands. No SSL headaches. No Docker confusion.
You get all the benefits of self-hosting without doing any of the technical setup yourself.
Own your data with no execution limits and full control.
Either way, once you're in, you'll see a blank canvas.
That's where the magic happens.
But before you start dragging nodes around, there's a shortcut you should know about.
Let Claude Build Your First Draft
Here's something most people don't know:
Once you're clear on what you want to build (remember that process mapping we did?), Claude can draft your first workflow for you.
There's an n8n MCP server that gives Claude access to all 537+ nodes, their documentation, and configuration requirements.
Plus n8n skills that teach Claude how n8n actually operates including expression syntax, common mistakes, troubleshooting patterns.
Together, they let Claude generate workflows that actually work.
You describe what you want. Claude builds the first draft. You refine it in n8n.
This cuts your build time significantly, especially when you're learning.
Here's how to set it up:
I made a YouTube video walking through the full MCP server setup:__ https://youtu.be/O_yyQAIU-zU__
You can grab the MCP server installation instructions from the GitHub repo here:__ https://github.com/czlonkowski/n8n-mcp/blob/main/README.md__
For the n8n Claude skills, grab them from this GitHub link:__ https://github.com/czlonkowski/n8n-skills/blob/main/README.md__
And here's an X post I did showing exactly how to set up the Claude skills:__ https://x.com/tomcrawshaw01/status/2008538584085594458__
Now, whether you use Claude or build from scratch, you need to know which nodes actually matter.
Here's the thing: n8n has 400+ nodes. You don't need to learn all of them.
The Only 12 Nodes You Actually Need
Seriously, master these and you can build almost anything.
Trigger Nodes (How Workflows Start)
Manual Trigger — Click to run. No webhook, no schedule, just a button. Use this when you're building and testing so you can run the workflow instantly without waiting for a real trigger.
Webhook Trigger — Creates a URL that receives data from anywhere. Forms, payment systems, other apps. This is your universal "start" button.
Schedule Trigger — Runs workflows at specific times. Daily reports at 9am. Weekly backups every Sunday. Hourly data syncs.
Form Trigger — Creates beautiful forms that trigger workflows when submitted. No external form tool needed.
Logic Nodes (Decision Making)
IF Node — Routes data based on conditions. If amount > $1000, do this. If status = "urgent", do that.
Switch Node — Like IF, but for multiple paths. Routes data to different branches based on rules.
Filter Node — Only lets through data that matches your criteria. Remove the junk before processing.
Data Nodes (Transform & Manipulate)
Edit Fields (Set) — Creates, modifies, or removes data fields. This is where you shape your data.
Split Out — Takes an array and turns it into individual items. Essential for processing lists.
Merge — Combines data from multiple branches back together.
Integration Nodes
HTTP Request — Connects to ANY API. If a service doesn't have a dedicated node, this is your backdoor.
Gmail / Slack / Google Sheets — The big three. Most workflows touch at least one of these.
AI Nodes
Basic LLM Chain — Send a prompt, get a response. Simple AI integration.
AI Agent — More advanced. The AI can use tools and make decisions.
That's it. Twelve nodes. Master these before you touch anything else.
Once you start building, you'll want to know the shortcuts that make everything faster.
The Hidden Features That Save Hours
Nobody talks about these, but they'll change how you work:
1. Pin Data to Nodes
Right-click any node → Pin data.
This locks the output so you can test downstream nodes without re-running the whole workflow.
Game changer for debugging.
2. Load Old Executions
Go to your Executions tab. Find a past run. Click it.
You can load that execution's data into your current workflow canvas.
Now you can test with real production data without triggering the workflow again.
3. Test vs Production Webhook URLs
Every webhook has TWO URLs — test and production.
Test URL only works when you click "Test Workflow."
Production URL only works when the workflow is active.
This confuses everyone. Now you know.
4. Expression Editor
When you're in a field and need to write an expression, click the little gears icon.
This opens the full expression editor with autocomplete and variable suggestions.
Don't try to write complex expressions in that tiny input box.
5. Duplicate Nodes
Right-click → Duplicate.
Or just copy-paste (Cmd+C, Cmd+V).
Sounds obvious. Most beginners manually recreate nodes instead.
6. Name Your Damn Nodes
"HTTP Request 45" tells you nothing at 2am when something breaks.
"Fetch_Customer_Data" saves your ass.
Click the node title. Rename it. Do this for every node.
Now that you know the shortcuts, let's talk about what to avoid.
The Mistakes That Waste Weeks
I've seen these kill momentum for dozens of people, don't make them.
Mistake 1: Building Before Planning
You get excited. You start dragging nodes. Three hours later you have spaghetti.
Before you touch n8n, sketch your workflow on paper.
What triggers it? What data do you need? What's the output?
Five minutes of planning saves five hours of debugging.
Mistake 2: Ignoring Error Messages
The red error text isn't decoration. It literally tells you what's wrong.
"Cannot read property 'email' of undefined" = you're trying to access a field that doesn't exist.
Read the error. Look at your data. The answer is usually right there.
Mistake 3: Not Using Templates
n8n has 1000+ free workflow templates.
Don't build from scratch. Find a template close to what you need. Modify it.
Copy → Modify → Ship → Get paid.
While others debug for days, you're already done.
Mistake 4: Over-Engineering Simple Workflows
Your first workflow doesn't need error handling, retry logic, and Slack notifications.
Get it working ugly. Then improve it.
My prettiest workflow took 2 weeks and never shipped.
My ugliest one made $5K.
Mistake 5: Skipping JSON Basics
Spend 10 minutes understanding JSON. It will save you 10 hours.
JSON is just labels and values:
json
{
  "name": "John",
  "email": "john@example.com"
}
name and email are labels. "John" and "john@example.com" are values.
To access email in n8n: {{__ $____json__.email }}
That's it. That's most of what you need.
Alright. You know the tool, you know the shortcuts and you know what to avoid.
Here's how to actually get good at this.
Your Learning Path (Week by Week)
Here's exactly how I'd learn n8n if I started over:
Week 1: The Basics (5-10 hours)
Build these three workflows:
1. Webhook → Slack message
2. Form submission → Email notification
3. Schedule → Google Sheets update
Don't worry about complexity. Just get data flowing from A to B.
You'll rebuild these three times. That's normal.
Week 2: Add Logic (5-10 hours)
Take your Week 1 workflows and add:
* IF nodes (route data based on conditions)
* Filter nodes (only process what matters)
* Edit Fields (transform data before sending)
This is when data flow starts making sense.
Week 3: API Integrations (10-15 hours)
Now you're getting dangerous.
* Use HTTP Request to hit external APIs
* Parse JSON responses
* Handle authentication (API keys, OAuth)
Build something real: pull data from one system, transform it, push to another.
Week 4: AI Integration (5-10 hours)
Add AI to your workflows:
* Basic LLM Chain for simple prompts
* AI Agent for complex tasks
* Process and route data based on AI classification
Month 2-3: Production Patterns
* Sub-workflows for reusability
* Error handling that notifies you when things break
* Retry logic for unreliable APIs
* Optimizing for speed and cost
Follow this path and you'll be building real automations within a month.
But you will get stuck, everyone does.
So here's what to do when that happens.
When You Get Stuck (And You Will)
It's not a matter of if. it's when.
Here's how to get unstuck fast:
The AI Debug Method
Copy your error message, copy the JSON data that caused it and export your workflow as JSON.
Paste everything into Claude.
Ask: "What's wrong and how do I fix it?"
This solves 90% of issues in minutes instead of hours.
Example:
ERROR: "Cannot read property 'email' of undefined"
JSON DATA:
{
  "user_email": "john@example.com",
  "name": "John Smith"
}
The AI will tell you: "You're trying to access 'email' but your data has 'user_email'. Change {{__ $____json__.email }} to {{__ $json__.user_email }}"
Community Resources
n8n Community Forum —__ ____community.n8n.io__. Searchable. Most questions already answered.
Template Library —__ n8n.io/workflows__. 1000+ examples.
Reddit -__ https://www.reddit.com/r/n8n__
The One Thing That Actually Matters
You've read this far.
You know the tool, you know the nodes, you know the shortcuts and the mistakes.
But none of that matters if you don't do this one thing:
Stop watching tutorials and start building.
Your first 10 workflows will be ugly, but that's the point.
Every workflow teaches you patterns for the next one.
There's no shortcut past the reps.
The gap between "learning n8n" and "getting paid for n8n" is smaller than you think.
One working automation, that's all it takes to prove you can do this.
Then build another, and another.
That's the whole game.
Now go build something.
Want to Go Deeper?
If this guide helped, here's how to keep learning:
I recorded a full workshop where I walk you through the 20% of nodes that will do 80% of your work in this 50 minute masterclass.
__Watch the 50-minute masterclass →__
I post in-depth tutorials, workflow breakdowns, and video walkthroughs every week.
If you learn better by watching, this is where you want to be.
Join The AI Operator's Playbook
This is my weekly newsletter for people serious about automation.
When you join, you get:
The AI Automation Vault — 15 production-ready n8n workflows. Lead qualifiers, SMS agents, CRM integrations. Copy, paste, deploy.
6 implementation playbooks — From 8 years and $25M+ in automation revenue. VSL frameworks, email sequences, project scoping templates.
Weekly workflow breakdowns — What I'm shipping in production. The code, logic, API integrations, and debugging shortcuts that save you hours.
The 3-step automation roadmap — How to identify and prioritize high-impact projects without getting lost in shiny tools or building systems nobody uses.
__Join the newsletter →__
__Kshitij Mishra | AI & Tech__
__@DAIEvolutionHub__
Most People Are Using Claude Code Wrong (40+ Tips After 11 Months of Use)
1. Start With the Basics
Before anything advanced, these fundamentals improve every Claude session.
Customize your status line
Show things like:
• model
• directory
• git branch
• uncommitted files
• token usage
This gives instant awareness of your working context.
Learn the core slash commands
Some essential ones:
/usage → check token usage
 /stats → session statistics
 /clear → reset conversation
 /mcp → manage MCP servers
Mastering these alone can make Claude feel much faster.
Use voice instead of typing
Many developers now talk to Claude instead of typing.
Tools like:
• SuperWhisper
• MacWhisper
let you dictate complex requirements faster than writing them.
2. Improve How You Work With Claude
Claude works best when you structure problems correctly.
Instead of asking:
“Build this entire feature.”
Break it into smaller steps.
For example:
1. Design the architecture
2. Generate the function
3. Write tests
4. Refactor
Claude performs much better with focused tasks.
Another powerful habit:
Start new conversations frequently.
Long conversations degrade quality.
Think of context like milk.
Fresh context → better outputs.
3. Let Claude Handle Your Git Workflow
One of the most underrated features is Git automation.
Claude can handle:
• commits
• branches
• pull requests
• code reviews
For example, you can simply say:
“Create a PR for this change.”
Claude can generate the commit, open the branch, and write the PR description.
This alone saves developers hours every week.
4. Power Users Run Multiple Claude Sessions
Many advanced users run multiple Claude sessions simultaneously.
Using terminal tabs, they separate tasks like:
Tab 1 → feature development
Tab 2 → debugging
Tab 3 → documentation
Tab 4 → research
Each tab has its own Claude session.
This allows parallel development workflows.
5. Advanced Workflow Tricks
Some advanced techniques dramatically improve efficiency.
Git Worktrees
Work on multiple branches simultaneously in different directories.
No need to constantly switch branches.
Clone conversations
Commands like:
/clone
 /half-clone
allow you to branch conversations while keeping useful context.
Use containers for risky tasks
Running Claude inside containers allows unsupervised operations safely.
Especially useful when running commands like:
• builds
• scripts
• automation tasks
6. Claude Is Also a Research Tool
Many developers now use Claude for research tasks, such as:
• debugging GitHub Actions
• analyzing Reddit discussions
• exploring codebases
• understanding unfamiliar tech
Claude is particularly good at synthesizing large amounts of information.
7. Verification Is Critical
One important rule:
Never blindly trust generated code.
Power users always verify using:
• tests
• Git clients
• draft pull requests
Claude is powerful, but verification is essential.
8. The Future: Personalized Software
One of the most interesting trends emerging from Claude Code usage is personalized software.
Developers are building:
• personal scripts
• custom tools
• small automation utilities
Things that previously required entire teams are now possible with AI-assisted development.
Final Thought
Claude Code is evolving extremely fast.
And the biggest productivity gains come from workflow improvements, not just better prompts.
If you're using Claude Code today, learning these techniques can easily make you 10× more productive.
And we are still very early in the AI developer tooling era.
__Zephyr__
__@Zephyr_hg__
By September 2027, These 6 Skills Will Be Worth $500/Hour. Right Now, Nobody's Charging For Them Yet
The market hasn't caught up to what these skills are actually worth. But it will. Fast. Here's the window before pricing catches up with value.
By September 2027, these 6 skills will be worth $500/hour to businesses.
Right now, almost nobody is charging for them yet.
Because the market hasn't figured out what they're worth.
Here's the window before pricing catches up with value.
AI Workflow Architecture
This isn't "using AI to write content."
It's designing complete business processes where AI handles the repetitive work and humans handle the judgment calls.
Where does AI do first drafts? Where do humans review? How do handoffs work? What triggers escalation to a person? How do you route decisions based on confidence levels?
Most companies are throwing AI at problems randomly. No structure. No thought about where humans add value versus where AI should operate independently.
The people who can map this out, design it properly, and implement it are going to be worth serious money.
Because businesses are desperate for this right now. They know they need AI integrated into operations. They just don't know how to do it without breaking things or creating chaos.
Every mid-sized company will pay $10K-20K for someone to come in and design their AI workflow architecture properly. Larger companies will pay multiples of that.
Right now, maybe 200 people in the world are offering this as a service. By September 2027, every company will be looking for it.
Get there first, and you set your own rates.
No-Code Automation System Building
Every business has 50+ hours of repetitive work happening weekly.
Data entry. Status updates. Report generation. Email triage. Customer onboarding. Invoice processing.
The professionals who can walk into a company, identify these tasks, and build automation systems that handle them will print money.
This isn't coding. Tools like n8n and Make let you build complex automations by connecting boxes visually.
Most business owners don't know these tools exist. Most professionals don't know you can do this without a computer science degree.
Here's the business case that makes this worth $500/hour:
You walk into a company. You identify 40 hours of weekly repetitive work across a team of 5 people. You build automations that reduce that to 10 hours.
You just saved them 30 hours weekly. That's 120 hours monthly. At an average loaded cost of $75/hour for employees, you're saving them $9,000 per month.
Charging $15K-25K to build those systems is a no-brainer for them. You can do it in a week once you're experienced.
That's $500+/hour work. And businesses will pay it because the ROI is immediate and measurable.
The market for this barely exists yet. By September 2027, it'll be one of the most in-demand services for mid-market companies.
AI Output Quality Systems
Companies are using AI to generate everything now.
Marketing content. Customer support responses. Internal reports. Data analysis. Strategic recommendations.
The problem: nobody's systematically checking if it's actually good.
AI hallucinates. Makes things up. Produces generic output that sounds authoritative but says nothing useful. Misses context that a human would catch instantly.
The professionals who can build quality control systems for AI output will be critical.
Not just "read this and tell me if it's wrong." Actual frameworks. Checklists. Automated detection for common AI mistakes. Review processes that catch errors before they reach customers.
This is becoming its own discipline.
Right now, maybe 50 consultants in the world are offering this. By September 2027, every company using AI at scale will need it.
Businesses will pay $20K-40K for someone to come in, audit their AI usage, identify where quality is breaking down, and build systems that ensure consistent output.
That's high-value strategic work. And the window to position yourself as an expert is about 6 months before everyone else figures out they need this.
Context Engineering for Business AI
Most companies are using AI like this:
Employee asks AI a question. Explains the context. Gets an answer. Closes the chat.
Next employee asks a similar question. Explains the same context. Gets an answer. Closes the chat.
This happens 500 times a week. Everyone's re-explaining the same company information over and over.
The solution: context engineering.
Setting up AI systems that already know your company. Products. Processes. Voice. Customer data. Common scenarios.
So when someone asks a question, they get a useful answer immediately. Not a generic response that requires 20 minutes of back-and-forth to become useful.
The professionals who can design and implement these systems will charge consulting rates.
Because the productivity impact is massive. If your team talks to AI 100 times daily, and each interaction saves 10 minutes of context explanation, that's 1,000 minutes daily. Over 16 hours saved every single day.
For a 50-person company, that's easily $50K-100K in annual productivity gains. Paying someone $25K to set this up properly is an easy decision.
This skill doesn't even have a standard name yet. By September 2027, it'll be a recognized profession with certification programs.
Get in now while you can still be early.
Process Mapping for Intelligent Automation
Most automation projects fail.
Not because the technology doesn't work. Because people automate broken processes and then wonder why the automation doesn't help.
Garbage process in, garbage automation out.
The skill that's becoming valuable: being able to walk into a business, map how work actually flows, identify bottlenecks and inefficiencies, redesign the process properly, THEN automate it.
This is part strategy consulting, part operations optimization, part technical implementation.
And it's worth serious money because businesses have been burned by automation projects that didn't deliver.
They need someone who can:
- Interview teams and understand how work really happens (not how the org chart says it happens)
- Map the current process with all its workarounds and inefficiencies
- Identify what's actually broken versus what should be automated as-is
- Redesign the process to fix root problems
- Then build automation that makes the improved process run itself
That's $40K-80K worth of work for a mid-sized company. And they'll pay it because the last three times they tried to "just automate" something, it failed.
Right now, maybe 100 people are offering this as a packaged service. By September 2027, every company attempting automation at scale will be looking for this expertise.
Strategic Automation Advisory
This is the meta-skill that ties everything together.
Knowing what to automate. What not to automate. What to do first. How to prioritize. Where AI makes sense versus where it doesn't. What stays human. How to measure ROI. How to avoid the common traps.
Most companies are making these decisions blindly right now.
CTO says "let's use AI for customer support." Marketing says "let's automate content." Operations says "let's automate reporting."
Nobody's thinking strategically about the whole picture.
The professionals who can provide strategic automation advisory will command the highest rates.
Because executives need someone who can:
- Assess their entire operation
- Identify the highest-ROI automation opportunities
- Prioritize based on impact and feasibility
- Design a roadmap that builds on itself
- Help them avoid expensive mistakes
- Think through second-order effects
This is C-level advisory work. And it's priced accordingly.
$500-1000/hour for strategic consulting. $50K-150K for a comprehensive automation strategy and roadmap.
Right now, this market is almost non-existent because most companies haven't realized they need strategic thinking around automation. They're still in the "let's try random AI tools" phase.
By September 2027, that phase will be over. Companies will have burned money on failed experiments. They'll be ready to pay for expertise.
The people positioned as strategic automation advisors when that shift happens will have more demand than they can handle.
Why September 2027 Specifically
That's when most mid-market companies will have:
- Spent 12-18 months experimenting with AI and automation
- Burned money on failed projects
- Realized they need expert help
- Built budget for external expertise
- Started competing seriously on automation capability
Right now, we're in the experimental phase. Companies are trying things. Some work. Most don't. They're learning by trial and error.
By September 2027, the market will have matured. Companies will stop experimenting and start executing strategically.
That's when demand for these skills explodes. And when the people who have real experience can charge premium rates.
The window to build that experience is now. Because you can't fake "I've been doing this for 18 months" when everyone else is just getting started.
What This Actually Means For You
Most people reading this will think "interesting" and do nothing.
A small number will spend the next 4-6 months learning these skills.
By September 2027, that small group will have:
- Real projects they can point to
- Results they can prove
- Experience nobody else has
- Positioning as early experts
They'll set rates based on value, not hours. Because businesses will pay for results.
The ones who wait will be competing with them while still trying to figure out the basics.
That's not a skills gap. That's a market positioning gap. And it directly translates to what you can charge.
The Real Barrier
These skills aren't hard to learn.
The barrier is knowing what actually matters versus what's just noise.
There's too much information. Too many tools. Too many people saying different things.
Most people will spend a year trying random things and still be confused. Because they're learning without structure. Without knowing what builds on what. Without understanding what's foundational versus what's advanced.
The professionals who succeed will follow a clear path. Learn the right things in the right order. Build on fundamentals properly.
That's the difference between being ready to charge $500/hour by September 2027 versus still figuring out the basics.
The__ Mastery Bundle__ is that structured path.
It teaches these exact skills in the sequence that actually works. AI integration. No-code automation. System design. Process thinking. Everything that's about to become the highest-value professional capabilities.
__Get it here →__
__Himanshu__
__@nothiingf4__
How to write Prompts to ship 100x faster
I spent 6 months figuring out why some prompts work
most will bookmark and do nothing  but
this  guide  covers all the tactics that actually matter,
1% who apply this will ship 10x faster while others guess
I've been using in Claude code and Codex for a while now, and I figured out exactly what separates prompts that get the work done from ones that you  waste your time writing aimlessly. Here's everything I know.
You have probably had the moment you ask ChatGPT or Claude something, get back a wall of generic bullsh*t, and think, "Why is this thing so dumb?" but you have to know a few things before calling it dumb. It's not dumb. You just don't know how to communicate with it. By the way I have mentioned few good prompt templates in the last part of this article
Prompt mistakes you are making unwillingly
To know what works for you is the first half of your job, the other half is to know where you are going wrong. So that you don't make the recurring mistakes.
1. Asking multiple unrelated things in one go/prompt -  when you chain unrelated tasks together, it distributes the model's attention.
2. Being vague about the negative space - telling the model what you want is good; telling it what you don't want is equally powerful.
3. Prompt & forget - most people just send one prompt, get a mediocre answer, and give up. What you should do is consider the first response as a draft and iterate over it to land on a  final plan.
4. Not giving the model permission to say "I don't know"  - To stop getting fake answers just add a simple rule to your prompt. "If you aren't sure, say so instead of guessing"
5. When you forget that longer chat with AI isn't always better - people think that longer prompts work better but they don't. Adding extra fluff, repeating yourself, or giving confusing instructions just mess up the things. Keep it strict and to the point. Every single sentence you write needs a clear reason to be there.
I will be doing that with the help of prompt engineering.
But before let's understand what is prompt engineering. It is the art of communicating with LLMs so clearly and strategically that they have to give you something useful.
diagram with anatomy of a prompt
The things that I am going to mention now matters more than ever right now. With tools like Claude Code, Cursor, and Codex turning developers into Vibe coders people who ship entire features by just describing what they want the quality of your instructions directly determines the quality of what gets built. A bad prompt to any agent doesn't just give you a bad answer; it gives you bad code, bad decisions, and wasted hours debugging something that should have worked in the first place.
Tactic 1: Start with Context - 3 W's
think of an LLM as a cracked contractor who shows up to your house? If you just say "fix something" They will look at you and say, "What do I have to fix?" Which shows that they lack context over here.  if you say this thing is broken in our house or whatever. I need you to repair it for me or patch it up before tonight. Then they have every info that they need to plan out for their task and execute it perfectly. 
Three W's Framework -
* what is the task?
* Who is the audience?
* What form at/outcome do you expect?
without context.
markdown
Write a summary of this article.
Without context:
markdown
You are a content editor at a tech startup. 
Summarize the following article  about AI regulation for a non-technical LinkedIn audience. 
Keep it under  150 words and use a professional but approachable tone.
[what you needed]
the difference in output quality is very much. Context works because it narrows the model's attention. It also reduces the probability space the model needs to search over when generating the response for you.
Less ambiguity = better output.
Tactic 2: Be Specific, not Vague
wake prompts are the number one source of disappointment for LLMs. Let me show you how they actually do this technically. LLMs are probability machines. At every step taken they are calculating what word most likely comes next. A vague prompt leaves that probability distribution wide open. A specific prompt narrows it dramatically.
Vague:
markdown
Write something about Python.
Specific:
markdown
Write a Python function that takes a list of dictionaries, filters out 
entries where the "status" key equals "inactive", and returns the 
filtered list sorted by "created_at" in descending order. Include 
type hints and a docstring.
the specific prompt can get you something like this -
python
from typing import List, Dict, Any
from datetime import datetime
def filter_active_records(records: List[Dict[str, Any]]) -> List[Dict[str, Any]]:
    """
    Filters out inactive records and returns them sorted by creation date (newest first).
    Args:
        records: A list of dictionaries, each containing 'status' and 'created_at' keys.
    Returns:
        A filtered and sorted list of active records.
    """
    active = [r for r in records if r.get("status") != "inactive"]
    return sorted(active, key=lambda x: x["created_at"], reverse=True)
doesn't it looks clean, precise, exactly what you asked for?
wide vs narrow token probability distribution
Tactic 3: Use Step by Step Instructions
think of it as feeding a recipe to your LLM. Even LLMs feel painful for the vague multi-step task you gave them
breaking a task into numbered steps does two things.
* It forces the model to process each step sequentially.
* It prevents it from hallucinating a shortcut.
This technique is very powerful in coding and in teaching context.
Without steps:
markdown
Explain recursion and quiz me.
With steps:
markdown
Do the following three things in order:
1. Explain the concept of recursion in Python, clearly and simply.
2. Show one concrete code example of a recursive function (use factorial).
3. Give me a short 2 question quiz to test my understanding.
Do not move to the next step until the current one is complete.
This is what you can get with a well structured step-by-step instruction
python
def factorial(n: int) -> int:
    """
    Calculates the factorial of n using recursion.
    Base case: factorial(0) = 1
    Recursive case: n * factorial(n - 1)
    """
    if n == 0:
        return 1
    return n * factorial(n - 1)
# factorial(5) → 5 * 4 * 3 * 2 * 1 = 120
there are several studies that show that stepwise prompts reduce confusion in models' internal processing, where each step acts like a checkpoint which the LLM tries to achieve and keeps track of the generation path.
Tactic 4: Set the Output Format
you are the master of your own answer models are not picky about how they give you the answers. They will give you a wall of text, JSON, bullet points, or Markdown unless you tell them otherwise. You are the director here. Model gives you the right where you can choose your output; only you should be capable enough to choose.
Unformatted request:
markdown
What are the pros and cons of using PostgreSQL vs MongoDB?
With format instructions:
markdown
Compare PostgreSQL and MongoDB. Format your response as a JSON object with 
two keys: "postgresql" and "mongodb". Each key should contain an object 
with "pros" (array of strings) and "cons" (array of strings). Limit to 
3 items per category.
Expected output:
json
{
  "postgresql": {
    "pros": [
      "Strong ACID compliance for data integrity",
      "Powerful SQL query support with JOINs",
      "Excellent for structured, relational data"
    ],
    "cons": [
      "Rigid schema makes rapid iteration slower",
      "Vertical scaling is more complex",
      "Steeper learning curve for beginners"
    ]
  },
  "mongodb": {
    "pros": [
      "Flexible document schema for fast iteration",
      "Horizontal scaling out of the box",
      "Great for unstructured or semi-structured data"
    ],
    "cons": [
      "Weaker consistency guarantees by default",
      "No native JOIN support — needs aggregation pipelines",
      "Can lead to data duplication without careful design"
    ]
  }
}
You can directly parse it into your application. Format instruction essentially acts as a "Filter " during token scoring . The model prioritizes outputs that match the structural pattern you have defined in the prompt.
CoT flowchart
Tactic 5: Ask for Reasoning
This can be a very powerful method on the list. When you specifically ask a model to reason through a problem before answering, you activate a chain of thoughts (COT).
Instead of:
markdown
Is it better to use async/await or threading in Python for I/O-bound tasks?
Without CoT the model jumps straight to a conclusion.
Try:
markdown
I'm building a Python script that makes 50 concurrent API calls. 
Think step by step: 
1. What are the relevant options for concurrency in Python?
2. What are the tradeoffs between async/await and threading for I/O-bound work?
3. Based on your reasoning, what would you recommend and why?
markdown
1. For I/O-bound concurrency in Python, the main options are:
threading, multiprocessing, and asyncio (async/await).
2. Threading uses OS-level threads, works but has overhead from
context switching and is limited by the GIL for CPU-bound work.
For I/O-bound tasks, threads spend most time waiting, so the GIL
isn't a bottleneck. Asyncio uses a single thread with an event loop, much lighter, purpose-built for high-concurrency I/O.
3. Recommendation: Use async/await with asyncio and aiohttp for 50
concurrent API calls. It handles this scale cleanly without the
overhead of spawning 50 threads.
By using this trick not only will you get an answer; model also gives you, the reasoning behind the answer which you can verify, critique, and build on studies have shown us that COT prompting can improve accuracy on reasoning tasks by significant margins, especially with large models. The "let's think step by step" phrase introduced by Kojima et al. (2022 ) is now one of the most studied prompts in AI research.
Even something as simple as appending "think step by step before answering" to an existing prompt often produces more meaningful and better results. 
Tactic 6: Use Examples and Constraints
There is a term known as few-shot prompting. Which is a technique of giving the model one or more input-output examples within the prompt itself before asking it to handle your real task, it's remarkably effective especially for formatting, tone, and classification tasks.
markdown
You are a Python code reviewer. Review the code below and respond ONLY in 
this format:
Issue: [short description]
Severity: [low/medium/high]
Fix: [one-line suggestion]
Example:
---
Code: for i in range(len(my_list)):
Issue: Using range(len()) instead of direct iteration
Severity: low
Fix: Use `for item in my_list:` instead
---
Now review this:
def get_user(id):
    result = db.execute("SELECT * FROM users WHERE id = " + id)
    return result
the model now has a very clear structural template to mirror. It will almost return.
markdown
Issue: SQL query built with string concatenation - SQL injection vulnerability
Severity: high
Fix: Use parameterized queries: db.execute("SELECT * FROM users WHERE id = ?", (id,))
constraint that you gave like "respond in under 100 words" or "do not use technical jargon"  Function as a guard rail that prunes the model's output candidates during generation, keeping things on track and responding with the relevant information while following the constraints mentioned in the prompt.
Vague vs structured Prompt
Tactic 7: Combine Everything
in the real world there's nothing such as picking the best tactic mentioned here. It's about learning which tactic to use when. The best prompt layer multiple techniques together, that can be as a reference for you.
markdown
system_prompt = """
You are a senior backend engineer reviewing Python code for a fintech startup.
Your reviews must be structured, precise, and educational.
When reviewing, follow these steps in order:
1. Identify any security vulnerabilities (prioritize these)
2. Spot performance issues
3. Note code style or readability concerns
For each issue, respond in this exact format:
Category: [security/performance/style]
Issue: [description]
Impact: [what could go wrong]
Fix: [corrected code snippet]
Example:
Category: security
Issue: Hardcoded API key in source code
Impact: Key exposed if repo is ever made public
Fix: Use environment variables — os.getenv("API_KEY")
"""
user_prompt = """
Review the following code:
def process_payment(user_id, amount):
    api_key = "sk_live_abc123xyz"
    response = requests.get(
        f"https://payment.api/charge?user={user_id}&amount={amount}&key={api_key}"
    )
    return response.json()
"""
If you remove any of those layers mentioned in the prompt, you can notice the difference between the outputs. These tactics aren't alternatives to each other. They are the ultimate ingredients you need to complete your dish.
markdown
Layers of a Great Prompt — What Each One Does:
1. Context → "Senior backend engineer at a fintech startup" — sets domain, expertise level, and stakes
2. Step-by-step instructions → "Follow these steps in order" — prevents skipping security issues and jumping to style feedback
3. Format instructions → "Category / Issue / Impact / Fix" — locks output into a structure you can parse consistently
4. Few-shot example → The hardcoded API key example — shows the model exactly how a completed review should read
5. Specificity → The actual payment function code — concrete input means concrete, targeted output
This single prompt is structured in a way which produces a review that's consistent, structured, and immediately actionable for almost every single time.
But why will you use it? (The Short Science Bit)
At their core LLMs are predicting the most probable next token at every step. Every element of the prompt is nudging those probabilities:
* Context - narrow the model's focus. It's just like tuning the frequency of your radio. Till you get the right one
* Specificity - reduces entropy. fewer valid next tokens = more accurate outputs.
* Step-by-step instructions - create Sequential Processing Checkpoints. It minimizes the compounding error.
* Format Instructions - Act as structural filters. The model internally scores output and pushes the highest matching ones to the top.
* Chain of thoughts - activates deeper reasoning pathways, surfacing intermediate logic before committing to a final answer.
* Examples - anchors the model's output distribution to a pattern you have already approved.
None of this is magic. It is just learning to speak the same probabilistic language that these models understand.
The Takeaway
prompt engineering isn't it about tricks or magic words you can put in your prompts. It's about Clarity, Structure, and Intention you are writing your prompts with. Models are powerful. Your job is to give them a clear enough signal to do what they are actually capable of.
Start small. Pick one tactic from this article and apply it to your next prompt. Notice the difference then add another tactic to it. You will quickly realize that most of the time the model isn't the problem, the prompt is.
And once you understand that, you have unlocked a skill that compounds fast.
Prompt Templates You Can Use Right Now
Follow me for such quality posts
markdown
Here are four ready-to-use templates for the situations you'll hit most often. Each one is built using the tactics from this article, copy them, modify them, make them yours.
Template 1: Code Review
You are a senior [language] engineer. Review the following code for a [context, e.g. "production API"].
Check in this order: (1) security vulnerabilities, (2) performance issues, (3) readability.
For each issue found, respond in this format:
Issue: [description]
Severity: [low/medium/high]  
Fix: [one-line correction or code snippet]
If no issues exist in a category, write "None found."
Code:
[paste code here]
Template 2: Writing / Content
You are a [role, e.g. "senior tech writer"]. Write a [format, e.g. "600-word blog post"] about [topic] for [audience].
Tone: [e.g. "casual but authoritative"]
Do NOT: use jargon, write a generic intro, or include filler phrases like "In today's world..."
Structure it as: intro-> 3 key points -> actionable takeaway
Template 3: Decision-Making / Analysis
I need to decide between [option A] and [option B] for [specific context].
Think step by step:
1. What are the key criteria for this decision?
2. How does each option perform against those criteria?
3. What are the risks of each choice?
4. What would you recommend and why?
Be direct in your recommendation. If you need more information to decide, ask for it.
Template 4: Debugging
I am getting this error: [paste error]
Context: I am building [what you're building] using [tech stack].
Here is the relevant code: [paste code]
Think step by step:
1. What is the most likely cause of this error?
2. Are there any other possible causes?
3. What is the fix, and why does it work?
Provide the corrected code snippet at the end.
__Ziwen__
__@ziwenxu___
10 Things I Wish I Knew Before Using OpenClaw
OpenClaw is a god-tier AI Assistant, but it’s a double-edged sword. I’ve burned over $100 in a single night and spend the time to learn so you don’t have to.
If you’re moving your life into a self-hosted agent, you need a strategy, not just an API key. This is the Day 1 manual I wish someone had handed me.
1. Localize Your Heartbeat (Save Your Budget)
By default, your agent "wakes up" every 30 minutes to check for tasks. That’s 48 API calls a day even if you're doing absolutely nothing. If you are paying raw API rates for those checks, you are literally burning cash while you sleep.
* The Fix: The very first thing you should do after installing OpenClaw is set up your own Local LLM specifically for heartbeats. Or leave your heartbeats to empty.
* The Pro Move: Install Ollama and pull a lightweight model like llama3.2:1b. It only takes up about 1.3GB of space, runs 100% offline, and costs exactly zero dollars.
* The Setup: Tell OpenClaw to route all routine heartbeat checks to your local llama3.2:1b instance. Save your expensive, premium API tokens for the actual heavy-lifting coding tasks. And as a general rule, keep your HEARTBEAT.md file empty unless you have an active automation running.
2. Stop "Model-Hopping" (And Dodging Rate Limits)
"Free API credits" from Google AI or Anthropic sound like a cheat code, and switching models mid-chat with /model feels like a superpower. In reality, it’s a massive trap that will ruin your context—and probably get you banned.
* The Trap (Free Tier Bans): Free tiers have incredibly low rate limits designed for humans. OpenClaw is an agent; it fires massive bursts of prompts to check skills, read files, and think. If you hook OpenClaw up to a free Gemini or Claude tier, you will hit the rate limit in 5 minutes, and providers will ban or suspend your API key for abuse.
* The Problem: Every time you hit a limit and manually switch models to keep working, you break the "vibe." Different models process context differently, and mid-task switching causes severe context rot.
* The Fix: Upgrade to a stable paid tier. Pick one "Brain" (Claude 3.5 Sonnet) and one "Worker" (Gemini Flash). Stick to them.
* The Hack: Stop manually switching. Set up fallback models in your config. If your primary API hangs or rate-limits, OpenClaw automatically swaps to the backup in the background so you never lose your flow.
3. Skills are Your Superpower (Don't Be a Bot)
Without skills, OpenClaw is just another chatbot. With them, it's a digital employee that can actually do things manage your notes, check your calendar, or even run code. Tell him to install his own skill.
* The Catch: Skills are essentially foreign code running on your machine. Install a "bad" skill and you’re handing over the keys to your house.
* The Strategy: Only use trusted sources like__ ____ClawHub.com__. Before you clawhub install, always cat the SKILL.md. If it asks for permissions it doesn't need, skip it. Also always add tell your own Openclaw to do SkillGuard check when installing those skills.
* The Starter Pack: Start with apple-notes, weather, and github. Don't over-install; every extra skill bloats the system prompt and slows down the "thinking" process.
4. Context Rot is Real (The "Deep Search" Fix)
The more you chat, the dumber the agent gets. Once the "context window" is full, the agent starts dumping your early project goals to make room for new messages.
* The Trap: You ask for a summary, and the agent "hallucinates" a recap because it already forgot the specific details from three days ago.
* The Fix: Don’t just ask for a summary. Use Session Search. If the agent feels "lost," tell it to search its own history for specific keywords (like "database schema" or "final decision").
* The Manual Override: If it’s still blanking, go to ~/.openclaw/agents/ and grep the logs yourself. Pasting a specific snippet from an old session back into the current chat "resets" the agent's brain instantly.
* The Habit: Manually review your MEMORY.md. If the agent writes something vague, fix it. Your memory file should be a list of hard facts, not a diary.
5. You Don’t Need Another Computer (Or a 9-Agent Fleet)
Seeing people flex massive 10-agent setups on X makes you think you need a dedicated server farm to scale. You don't. I used to run a 9-agent setup thinking more was better. Instead it just burned tokens, cranked up my API bill, and created chaos.
* The Distinction: A new session (/new) is just clearing the desk for your current employee. A new agent (openclaw agents add) is hiring a completely new employee with their own brain, memory, and workspace.
* The Move: Use openclaw agents add <name> strictly for true isolation. This is how you keep your "Codebase Agent" completely walled off from your "Personal Life Agent" so their contexts never bleed.
* The Pro Tip: Keep your headcount low. Spin up a full new agent only when you need totally different file directories or highly specific skill sets. For everything else, just hit /new. It keeps things snappy and stops your wallet from bleeding.
6. Stop Planning in the Chat Window (Markdown is Forever)
LLMs are reactive. If you don't give them a map, they’ll wander and burn your tokens walking in circles. Chat is ephemeral by day 3 of a build, the context window has already dumped your Day 1 requirements.
* The Mistake: Brainstorming a 2-week sprint entirely inside the prompt box. You will spend half your time re-explaining the architecture.
* The Fix: Create a PLAN.md or ROADMAP.md in your workspace before you write a single line of code.
* The Workflow: Start every new session with: "Read PLAN.md and let's execute Step 3." When you pivot, tell the agent: "Update PLAN.md with the new Next.js routing structure we just agreed on." Be the manager, let the agent be the coder. It's kind of like talking to your employee everything they are doing things we make sure he's on duty and have a clear instructions.
7. Memory: Stop Hoping It Remembers
Your agent isn't a mind reader. It doesn't know the difference between a random shower thought and a critical architecture decision unless you tell it. If you don't explicitly save it, it's living on borrowed time.
* The Trap: Assuming that because you talked about it, it's in the permanent memory. It's not. It will forget by tomorrow.
* The Trigger Phrase: When something important happens, physically type: "Remember this for next time: we are strictly using TypeScript for all new API routes." * The Audit: Periodically open your MEMORY.md file yourself. If it’s filled with garbage, tell the agent to prune it. If it's missing your core tech stack, just manually type it in.
8. The "One Agent = One Job" Rule (Avoid the God-Agent Trap)
Spinning up a massive 9-agent fleet will bankrupt you (I burned $100 in one night doing this). But on the flip side, trying to make one agent do everything will completely overload its brain and tank your performance.
* The Mistake: Giving a single agent your GitHub credentials, your Apple Notes, and your X account, then asking it to write a Next.js component and draft marketing copy in the same session. The system prompt gets bloated, the context gets muddy, and the agent hallucinates.
* The Fix: Scope them ruthlessly. Make each agent perform one specific domain of tasks.
* The Setup: I simplified my chaotic 9-agent setup down to just two hyper-focused workers. One is strictly my codebase engineer (React/TypeScript). The other strictly handles ops and external research.
* The Sub-Agent Hack: If you need a quick, parallel task done, spawn a temporary sub-agent with a zero-minute heartbeat (heartbeat: null). Keep the scope narrow, keep the roles isolated, and keep the token burn low.
9. Stop Flying Blind (Use the Dashboard)
Chat interfaces are for talking. The dashboard is for managing. If you only interact with your agent through Discord or WhatsApp, you have no idea what’s actually happening under the hood.
* The Mistake: Guessing why an agent didn't complete a task, or waiting until the end of the month to realize you blew through your API budget.
* The Fix: Run openclaw dashboard and keep it pinned in a browser tab.
* The Visibility: This is where you monitor your active sessions, catch cron jobs stuck in infinite loops, and watch your token burn in real-time. If you're a terminal purist, at least make openclaw status and openclaw models status a daily habit to check your gateway health.
Here is the prompt for a dashboard:
Please build a task board for us that tracks all the tasks we are working on. I should be able to see the status of every task and who the task is assigned to, me or you. Moving forward please put all tasks you work on into this board and update it in real time.
Remember keep enhancing the more stuff you have the better the dashboard will become
10. The Limit is You (It’s an Amplifier, Not Magic)
People expect OpenClaw to magically build their startup while they sleep. It won't. OpenClaw doesn't generate good ideas; it just executes your instructions at scale.
* The Reality: If your prompts are vague, your output will be garbage. If your workflow is chaotic, OpenClaw will just automate your chaos. It can only work with the tools, skills, and context you provide.
* The Fix: Treat your OpenClaw agent like a junior developer. It needs clear instructions, a defined scope, and the right permissions.
* The Secret: Invest two hours reading the actual OpenClaw docs. The difference between a frustrated user and a 10x builder is usually just knowing three specific CLI commands and understanding how the system actually routes context. Your knowledge is the ceiling. OpenClaw is just the ladder.
Bonus: The Ultimate Hack (Stop Paying Raw API Rates)
This is the most important financial lesson you will learn: Stop paying raw, pay-as-you-go API rates.
* The Brutal Reality: You type "hello." OpenClaw doesn't just send "hello." It packages your system instructions, your active skills, your MEMORY.md, and your context window. Suddenly, a simple greeting just blasted 30,000+ tokens to the API. When you ask it to run an actual multi-step coding task, it will swarm your token count and rack up a massive bill fast.
* The Fix: Get onto a dedicated flat-rate "coding plan" (like Kimi or Codex) immediately to cap your downside.
Just look at this dashboard. My agent chewed through 140.4 million tokens in just two days. At raw API rates, that’s a $1,677.82 bill. Because I was on a flat-rate coding plan, my actual out-of-pocket was exactly $50. Don't go bankrupt running raw APIs.
Usage Dashboard
The Final Word
OpenClaw isn't just an app you install and forget. It's a piece of critical infrastructure for your workflow. It won't build your startup for you, but if you respect the token burn, manage your memory files, and stop model-hopping, it becomes the ultimate leverage. Put in the work on Day 1, and let the agent do the heavy lifting by Day 100.
__Robin Delta__
__@heyrobinai__
7 claude cowork skills i can't live without (steal them)..
i've been more productive in the last 30 days than the previous 6 months combined. the reason is embarrassingly simple: i stopped using claude like a search engine and started building a system around it.
the difference is skills.
(you: still switching tabs like it's 2019)
> most people are using claude completely wrong
they ask it a question. get a response. close the tab. repeat tomorrow.
that's not a workflow. that's a fancy search engine.
the shift that changed everything: claude cowork with skills doesn't respond to you. it builds things for you. real files. real outputs. deliverables you can share, keep, and open six months from now.
the difference between "claude gave me some ideas" and "claude handed me a finished document" is a markdown file and about ten minutes of setup.
skill 1: the morning briefing
one command pulls my calendar, reads my unread emails, scrapes AI news, and renders everything inside a custom-styled web dashboard. apple font, clean layout, three priorities at the top.
i didn't configure this every morning. i configured it once. now it runs on a schedule at 8am without me touching anything.
five apps replaced by two words. every day.
skill 2: research assistant
research used to mean 15 browser tabs, copy-pasting between docs, losing links halfway through.
now i describe a topic and get back a structured markdown document with an executive summary, sourced claims, data, and stats, saved as a real file i can keep or share. the kind of research brief that used to take me 30-60 minutes now takes under 2.
skill 3: meeting notes to action items
an hour-long meeting becomes 10 clear next steps. you paste in the transcript, the skill outputs a clean summary, action items organized by person, deadlines, open questions, and a follow-up structure.
saved as a file. not a chat bubble. a file.
if you've ever left a meeting thinking "what actually needs to happen now," this skill is the answer.
this is the part nobody talks about.
skill 4: slide deck generator
3 hours is the average time spent making a presentation. with this skill it's under a minute.
i give it one sentence. it generates a full slide deck as an HTML site with smooth animations, visual components, structured sections, and a hook slide. the slides in the video i made about this were built entirely with this skill.
the rule baked into the skill: every slide must have a visual component. no walls of text. ever.
skill 5: visual explainer
this one might be the most underrated skill i use.
describe any concept, system, or process, and claude builds you an interactive webpage that visualizes it. system architectures, business processes, data dashboards, concept breakdowns. anything you can explain, it can render.
i use it constantly to visualize the cowork systems i'm building so i can actually see what's happening under the hood. (took me embarrassingly long to realize how useful this was)
skill 6: diagram generator
excalidraw diagrams by hand are a pain. this skill takes a description and outputs a real excalidraw json file you import directly.
one command, one file, one professional diagram. done.
skill 7: skill creator
here's the meta one.
not every workflow fits a pre-built skill. if you're a teacher, realtor, designer, freelancer, you have workflows nobody else has. the skill creator skill lets you build your own skills through conversation.
you describe what you do repeatedly. claude asks follow-up questions. you answer. it packages everything into a skill file, configured for your exact use case.
invoice generation. lesson planning. proposal drafts. weekly reports. anything you do more than once shouldn't be manual.
> skills + connectors + scheduled tasks
skills are half the story.
connectors link cowork to your actual apps. gmail, calendar, notion, and 38+ more natively. for apps not on that list, zapier mcp taps into 8,000+ integrations with a url paste.
and with scheduled tasks, you don't even need to trigger skills manually. you write one prompt, set a schedule, and claude runs it automatically. my morning briefing runs every day at 8am without me touching anything. weekly stats reports, competitor scans, invoice trackers: all on autopilot.
skills plus connectors plus scheduled tasks equals an AI that handles your recurring work while you focus on the work only you can do.
the people still opening five tabs every morning will figure this out eventually. you just figured it out today.
Robin🫡
__Aaron Levie__

__@levie__
Building for trillions of agents
Over the past few months, something big has started to happen with agents. Near the tail end of last year, we began to reach the point where coding agents were able to complete much longer running tasks, and didn’t require as much hand-holding throughout the development process.
These agents are no longer chatbots with basic tools. Instead, these agents often have their own sandboxed compute environment, have the ability to write and run code for any problem they run into, interact with APIs and CLIs directly, have their own file systems and long-term memory, and so on. This set of core primitives, general progress on agentic harness best practices, and insane model progress on agentic tool-use and software development, offer a glimpse of agents that can handle any task that can be thrown at them.
And while this architecture was initially defined by a mix of coding agents like Claude Code, Devin, Codex, Factory, Cursor, or Replit, we’ve recently crossed the chasm into all areas of personal experiences and knowledge work now with agents like Claude Cowork, Perplexity Computer, Manus, and of course OpenClaw, which took things far further into the future, with an agent that runs 24/7 in its own persistent environment.
Because of rapidly advancing capabilities, agents will be brought into nearly all areas of work. Agents will be deployed to review every contract that gets written, handle the front lines of most customer support cases, audit every company’s financials, comb through every piece of medical research for drug discovery, generate nearly all code that ever gets written, create most sales and consulting presentations, transact across the web for consumers, and overall, be involved in nearly every other economically valuable task in society.
And it won’t just be about executing the tasks that we already do today. We’ll use agents to do vastly more than we did before — we’ll use agents to run simulations that would have been unaffordable before, we’ll use them to prototype every idea we have with many different options, we’ll pursue vastly more projects because it’s cheap to get going and easy to shut down, and we’ll review every piece of data vs. sampling information.
When you add this all up, we can expect that nearly every employee in an organization will have many agents working on their behalf, and it isn’t hard to imagine an enterprise with 100X or 1,000X more agents than people in a company. As a result of trillions of agents running around, agents will become the primary user of all software in the future.
Given most software was built for people to use, this means we’re going to see a major shift in what the future of software looks like. So what’s next?
Make something agents want
Paul Graham famously framed how to build software in the simplest possible terms: make something people want.
This advice led to some of the biggest software success stories of the 21st century, and helped lead to a movement for building tools that were simple to use, easy to adopt, solved clear problems without jargon, had straightforward pricing, and more.
Now, the path forward is to make software that agents want. While the biggest users of agents tend to be developers or at least highly technical users that often will have their own preferences of tools, in a world of agents doing any type of task for knowledge workers, this type of preference will slowly drift away. Short of an enterprise already having a standard, agents will then be in the driver’s seat for what gets adopted for any particular workflow.
This could mean the tools they sign up for, the code that they write, the libraries that they use, the skills they leverage, and so on. The platforms that are easier for agents to adopt, and solve the agent (and user’s) problems the best, will get ahead far faster than those that don’t. Agents won’t be going to your webinar or seeing your ad; they’re just going to use the best tool for the job, and you’ll want it to be yours.
The biggest implication of this advice is that everything must become API-first in what you’re building. If you don’t have an API for a feature, it might as well not exist. If it can’t be exposed through a CLI or MCP server, you’re at a disadvantage. If you have confusing APIs and conflicting paths for an agent to pursue, you’re just compromising your chances of being useful for agents. At Box, as we focus on building a file system for agents, we’ve been combing over every aspect of our API to figure out what breaks down in a world of agents for a level of usability that normally has only gone into UX design.
Just as designing for users meant putting yourself in their shoes when building software, the same is true when thinking about what agents will run into. For instance, Jared Friedman at YCombinator put everyone on notice: “Even the best developer tools mostly still don't let you sign up for an account via API.  This is a big miss in the claude code age because it means that claude can't sign up on its own. Putting all your account management functions in your API should be tablestakes now." If an agent can’t easily sign up for your service and starting using it, you’re basically dead to agents.
There are also major business model implications to a world where agents are the biggest users of software in the future. In some cases user seats kicking off agents may comfortable fit into a seat-based business model for software, but there are plenty of use cases for agents that don’t attach neatly to an existing user or because their volume of workload is now totally different. For instance, with a few words or a couple lines of text, an agent might do hours of human-equivalent work within software, and just expose the final output to the end-user.
This will ultimately mean an evolution of business models for some parts of software, as any tool that wants to survive an agentic future needs some form of consumption or volume-based business model built into their system, even supporting agents being able to make their own payments for these services.
The next era of infra and tools for agents
"it was a good idea to give computers to humans. it’s a better idea to give computers to computers so that they can create the same outputs we do on a computer for our work.” - Aravind Srinivas, Perplexity
As agents have their own computers they use, and can write and execute their own code, call in oft-used skills for repeated actions, as well as tap into external tools and services, this creates an opportunity for an all new set of technologies for agents to use. Just imagine what a user does on a computer, and an agent will need a similar set of capabilities designed just for them.
Some of these core services will naturally come from existing players, because the agent is tapping into existing data, or there is value to the collaboration or connection between the existing human user and the agentic user on a system. Equally, there are going to be all new categories that emerge because the problem space is just *so* different from what a human user needed or could do before, that it makes sense to design the service from the ground up.
For instance, it’s clear agents will need to have their own infrastructure to operate with, and at a scale that we’ve never seen before. The next hyperscaler (or an existing one) will be built on the back of the idea that the future server farms won’t be used for our applications, but instead, our agents. E2B, Daytona, Modal, and Cloudflare are all pushing in this direction, and these sandboxed environments will rival any scale of computing we’ve ever seen before.
Agents will also need access to core files in an enterprise, as well as be able to manage their own data for memory and long running work, which is what we’re focused on building at Box. Similarly, major enterprise systems will need to become API-first for enabling agents to work with critical services and data from an organization — such as HRIS, CRM, workflows, data lakes, and other major systems. The products that offer the most seamless tools for agents to operate on this data from anywhere will be in the best position to win over these future workloads.
Agents will likely also need identities, and have the ability to communicate with others; Agentmail, for instance, is providing mailboxes for agents to have their own persistent email to work with. Parallel, Exa, and others are rebuilding web search for a world in which agents are the biggest users crawling the web for information. Many types of agents will need to manage their own budgets of what they can spend on with wallets from Stripe or Coinbase, and we may finally get a real use case for microtransactions, where agents can tap into paywalled tools and information.
Security, compliance, and governance will become a major problem for these agents. In a world where agents are accessing and working on sensitive information in a workflow, or where they’re executing regulated workflows (like in pharma or banking), companies will need to govern and retain all the work that these agents did. Long-running agents will likely need their own identities that allow them to authenticate into services, offering strict controls on what types of actions they can take and what data they have access to in an enterprises. We’ll need all new software and platforms to help with these challenges, just like we’ve built out for people and applications over time.
Overall, we are clearly entering a new era of software where we need to design and build our tools specifically for agents to use at scale. In a world of trillions of agents doing work, this will usher in a completely new way of working with software.
__Zayn__
__@quietly_rich__
how to create AI content for faceless pages (full breakdown)
the biggest reason faceless pages fail isn't the niche
it's the content
people run out of time, run out of ideas, or spend so long producing one piece of content that posting consistently becomes impossible
AI removes that bottleneck entirely
you can now produce more content in one afternoon than most creators produce in a month
this is how
> the two types of AI content
before getting into tools, understand that AI content for faceless pages falls into two categories
written content: posts, captions, scripts, product descriptions
visual content: images, slideshows, videos
both formats work
written content is the cheapest and fastest to produce and builds the foundation of your page
visual content expands your reach and works across platforms that prioritise images and video
the full operation eventually runs both
but if you're starting out, get written content working first, then layer in visual
> written content: Claude skills
the fastest way to produce written content at scale is building a Claude skill for your page
a skill is a set of instructions that tells Claude exactly how to write for your specific niche, in your specific voice, for your specific audience
you build it once
every piece of written content after that takes minutes
a skill for a fitness page writes growth posts, trust posts, and sale posts in the exact tone and format that works for that audience
a skill for a personal finance page does the same thing but calibrated entirely to that niche
if you're running multiple pages, each page gets its own skill
the upfront work to build each skill properly is real
but once it's done, your entire written content operation is handled
for every repeatable writing task — posts, product descriptions, email sequences, sale content — the skill produces it on demand
> visual content: what works for faceless pages
visual content for faceless pages doesn't require a character or a face
a lot of the best performing faceless content is characterless entirely — slideshows, text-on-screen videos, educational carousels, quote graphics, data visualisations
these formats work because they deliver value without requiring a person on screen
if you want to add a character to your visual content like an AI influencer, a spokesperson, a recurring face that's a separate layer on top
both approaches work
pick the one that fits your niche and the platform you're posting on
> creating AI characters with nano banana
if your page uses a visual character, nano banana pro is the tool for generating photorealistic characters that look indistinguishable from real people
the key is JSON prompting, not text prompts
JSON prompting gives you control over skin texture, natural imperfections, lighting, and color grading in a way that text prompts don't
the default output from most image gen tools has a recognisable AI look so grey tones, flat skin, too clean
to avoid that, use a reference image and extract the color grading through gemini before generating your character
the result is a character that looks like it was shot on a phone, not rendered by a machine
once you have your character, you own that face across every piece of content you produce
> bringing characters to life with video
there are three tools worth knowing depending on what you're making
kling 3.0 is the go-to for dialogue-heavy talking head content
its multi-shot feature lets you generate a character speaking directly to camera across multiple clips with consistent motion quality
many videos on social media that look completely real are kling generations
veo 3.1 is google's video model and the best option for cinematic, high-movement content
it generates up to 60 seconds in 4K vertical format with native audio
the ingredient mode is particularly useful: lock your character's face as ingredient one, add a product photo as ingredient two, and the model keeps both consistent across every clip you generate
for product demos this is the cleanest workflow available
for long talking head videos — testimonials, explainers, anything 30 to 60 seconds with one person speaking — the lipsync route works best
generate your character in nano banana pro, write the script, generate the voice, then run it through infinitetalk or wan lipsync on__ ____wavespeed.ai__ or runpod
the output is a realistic talking head video with your character's mouth synced to the audio
> voice generation
every AI video with a speaking character needs a voice
two options worth using
minimax is the easiest starting point
you can design a voice from a text prompt or clone one from a 10-second audio clip
for most faceless pages this is enough
elevenlabs is the step up
higher quality but requires more setup to get right
never use the pre-made voices, always create a custom voice through voice design or instant voice clone
when prompting, specify "in the room" sound rather than studio quality
the two-step trick that makes it sound most natural: normalize the audio through capcut's voice change feature first, then apply the elevenlabs voice on top
the consistency it produces is noticeably better than going straight to elevenlabs
> the full pipeline
put it all together and the workflow looks like this
script written by Claude using your page skill
character generated in nano banana pro using JSON prompting
voice generated in minimax or elevenlabs v3
lipsync applied through infinitetalk or wan on__ ____wavespeed.ai__
edited in capcut: captions, hook text, CTA overlay, music
posted daily
the first time through it takes a few hours
once you've done it five times it's under an hour per video
> a note on what this article didn't cover
AI content creation is a big topic
this article covered the core: written content through Claude skills, character creation through nano banana pro, video through kling and veo, voice through minimax and elevenlabs
there's a lot more to go into ...AI UGC for client work, automation through n8n and openclaw, scaling to 30 to 50 videos a week
those deserve their own breakdowns
for now, start with the pipeline above
get one piece of AI content produced end to end
then repeat it
> the only thing left to do
the pages producing AI content at scale aren't using tools you don't have access to
they just started building the system before you did
write your first skill today
produce your first piece of visual content this week
run it through the pipeline
your first attempt will take longer than you expect
your tenth will be automatic
start now
__Dep__
__@0xDepressionn__
Prompt engineering: the skill that will define AI power users in 2026
In the last two years, AI tools have become part of everyday workflows for millions of people
From writing and research to coding, analytics and product development
But here's something interesting: almost everyone uses AI today, yet very few people actually know how to communicate with it effectively
And this is exactly where prompt engineering starts to matter
Many people think prompting is simply typing a request like:
"write a post"
"create a strategy"
"analyze this document"
And hoping the model will figure everything out on its own
In reality, the difference between average AI outputs and actually useful ones often comes down to how the prompt is structured
People who understand this are able to get dramatically better results from the exact same models
So the question becomes:
What actually makes a good prompt?
In this article, we'll break down the key principles behind prompt engineering and why it's quickly becoming one of the most important skills in the AI era
1: Why prompt engineering became a real skill
Just a few years ago, interacting with software meant learning interfaces
You had buttons, menus, dashboards and specific workflows that forced you to adapt to the tool
AI changed that model completely. Now the interface is language
Instead of clicking through menus, you simply explain what you want
But this shift created an interesting effect: the quality of results now depends heavily on how well you describe the task
Two people can use the exact same AI model and get completely different outcomes
One gets a generic answer that barely helps
The other gets a structured, highly useful output that saves hours of work
The difference isn't the model, it's the prompt
Prompt engineering is essentially the skill of translating your goal into a form that the model can execute
If the request is vague, the output will usually be vague
But if the request clearly defines the context, the task, and the format of the result, the model has a much easier time producing something valuable
This is why prompting is starting to look more like a real skill
As AI tools become more integrated into daily workflows, the ability to communicate clearly with these systems will start to separate casual users from power users
2: The biggest mistake most people make when prompting AI
One of the most common mistakes beginners make is assuming that the model will "figure out" what they mean
In reality, most prompts people write look something like this:
"write a marketing strategy"
"create a content plan"
"analyze this project"
Technically these prompts are valid, but they are extremely vague
The model doesn't know:
* who the audience is
* what the goal of the output is
* what format you expect
* what constraints should be respected
When that information is missing, the model fills the gaps using the most common patterns from its training data
And those patterns usually produce generic outputs
This is why many people say things like: "AI content always sounds the same"
Instead of writing a vague request, a much better approach is to define a few key elements from the start:
* what the task is
* who the output is for
* what problem it should solve
* what format the answer should follow
For example, instead of asking: "write a marketing strategy"
You could ask something like: "create a marketing strategy for a new AI productivity tool targeting solo founders. focus on Twitter growth and organic acquisition. structure the answer as a step-by-step plan"
The model now has much clearer instructions, which dramatically improves the quality of the output
3: How to structure prompts correctly
Once you understand that vague prompts lead to generic outputs, the next logical step is learning how to structure prompts properly
In practice, most good prompts follow a simple structure
They define five key elements that guide the model toward the correct result
These elements are:
* role
* context
* task
* constraints
* output format
You don't always need all five, but the clearer they are, the better the model performs
Let's break this down ⬇️
1. Role
Assigning a role helps the model approach the task from a specific perspective
Instead of asking a generic question, you define who is solving the problem
For example: "act as a product marketing strategist working with early-stage AI startups"
This gives the model a mental frame for the task and often improves the quality of reasoning
2. Context
Context explains the environment in which the task exists
Without context, the model must guess what you're trying to do
For example: "we're launching an AI note-taking app for founders who struggle with organizing ideas. The product focuses on speed and minimal UI"
Now the model understands the situation before generating anything
3. Task
This is the actual instruction, it should clearly describe what needs to be produced
For example: "create a content strategy focused on organic growth on X and LinkedIn"
Short, direct tasks work best
4. Constraints
Constraints help eliminate unwanted outputs, they define what the model should avoid or limit
For example: "keep the strategy realistic for a small startup with no paid marketing budget" or "don't include generic advice"
Constraints narrow the search space and improve relevance.
5. Output format
Finally, specify how the output should look, this is one of the most overlooked parts of prompting
For example: "structure the answer as a step-by-step plan with clear action items" or "return the result as a table with three columns: channel, strategy, expected outcome"
This makes the result immediately usable instead of forcing you to reformat it manually
When these elements are combined, the prompt becomes much more powerful
Instead of asking the model to guess what you want, you give it a clear specification of the task
And that difference alone can dramatically improve the quality of AI outputs
Prompt template you can copy:
Role: "Who should the AI act as?"
Example: "You are a product marketing strategist working with early-stage AI startups"
CONTEXT: What situation or project is this related to?
Example:
"We're launching an AI note-taking tool for solo founders who struggle with organizing ideas."
TASK
What exactly should the AI do?
Example:
"Create a content strategy focused on organic growth on X and LinkedIn."
CONSTRAINTS
What should the output avoid or limit?
Example:
"Do not include generic advice. Keep the strategy realistic for a startup with no paid marketing budget."
OUTPUT FORMAT
How should the result be structured?
Example:
"Structure the answer as a step-by-step plan with clear action items."
4: Prompt frameworks that actually work
Once you understand the basic structure of a good prompt, the next step is learning how to work with AI more efficiently
One important thing: experienced users rarely rely on a single prompt
Instead, they treat prompting as a process
The idea is simple: instead of asking the model to do everything at once, you break the task into smaller steps
This approach usually leads to better results because the model can focus on one problem at a time
For example, imagine you want AI to create a full go-to-market strategy
A beginner might write one prompt like this: "create a go-to-market strategy for my startup"
The model will generate something, but it will often be generic
A better approach is to split the process into stages
First, ask the model to analyze the market and define the target audience
Then ask it to identify key growth channels
After that, ask it to create a content or acquisition strategy
Finally, ask it to structure everything into a clear plan
By guiding the model step by step, you control the reasoning process and reduce the chance of generic outputs
This approach is often called prompt chaining or task decomposition, and it's widely used in more advanced AI workflows
Another useful technique is iterative prompting, instead of expecting the perfect result immediately, you treat the interaction as a refinement loop
You generate an initial output, analyze it, and then ask the model to improve specific parts
For example:
"Improve the clarity of section two"
"Rewrite this paragraph to make it more user-friendly"
"Make this explanation simpler for beginners"
Over several iterations, the output becomes significantly stronger
In practice, many power users combine both approaches: structured prompts and iterative refinement
At that point prompting starts to feel more like collaborating with the model, rather than simply asking a question and accepting the first response
5: Why prompt engineering will matter even more in the future
Right now, most people still see AI tools as something experimental
They open ChatGPT or Claude, ask a few questions, maybe generate some content, and move on
If you look at how software is evolving, a clear pattern starts to appear
More and more tools are replacing traditional interfaces with conversational ones
Instead of dashboards, menus and complicated workflows, you simply explain what you want, and the system executes it
This means language is slowly becoming a universal interface for software
And when language becomes the interface, the ability to structure instructions becomes extremely valuable
People who know how to describe problems clearly, break tasks into steps, and guide AI systems effectively will always get better results
Another important shift is happening around context
Modern AI tools increasingly allow users to attach files, knowledge bases, project memory, or external data sources
This means prompting is no longer just about writing a single message
It's about managing context, defining tasks, and structuring interactions across entire workflows
In other words, prompting is slowly evolving into something closer to system design for AI workflows
You are not just asking a model for an answer, you are designing how the model should think about a problem
And as AI tools become more powerful and more integrated into everyday work, this skill will only become more important
The difference between someone who uses AI occasionally and someone who truly leverages it often comes down to one thing: how well they know how to communicate with the system
6: CONCLUSION
Prompt engineering is often presented as a collection of tricks
In reality it's closer to a way of thinking
The more clearly you can define a task, describe the context, and structure the output you want, the easier it becomes for AI systems to produce useful results
AI tools become more integrated into everyday workflows, this approach will quickly reach its limits
Those who learn how to structure prompts, guide the reasoning process, and refine outputs step by step will be able to extract far more value from the same models
In many ways prompting is becoming a new form of digital literacy
And just like with any other skill, the advantage goes to those who start practicing it earlier
__ericosiu__
__@ericosiu__
Everyone says AI agents are a waste of time. Here's $6.6M in pipeline that disagrees.
I run 6 AI agents and 64 automated cron jobs across my agency. They break. They hallucinate. They cost real money to operate.
They also sourced $6.6M in dead pipeline, hired a superstar engineer, and got me invited to speak at Google.
Most people build agents that do demos. We built agents that do revenue. Here's what 8 months of going all-in actually looks like.
The deal resurrector
229 closed-lost deals were sitting dead in our HubSpot CRM. Every sales leader knows these exist. Nobody has time to touch them.
We built an agent that scans all 229. It scores each deal on time decay, with sweet spots at 90 days, 6 months, and 12 months. If the original contact left the company, it finds their replacement. If the champion moved to a new company, it follows them there.
40 deals surfaced. $6.6M in pipeline. Deals that were literally dead in the CRM, brought back with zero human effort.
DEAL RESURRECTOR PIPELINE
229 closed-lost deals
│
▼
┌────────────┐
│ Time Decay │ 90d/6mo/12mo
│  Scoring   │ sweet spots
└─────┬──────┘
▼
┌────────────┐
│ POC Check  │ contact left?
│  Expand    │ find replacement
└─────┬──────┘
▼
┌────────────┐
│ Champion   │ moved companies?
│  Tracker   │ follow them
└─────┬──────┘
▼
40 deals │ $6.6M pipeline
Hiring at machine speed
We forked Anthropic's "Beat Claude" challenge and turned it into a__ hiring test__. The very first person to take it was a superstar. Hired within days.
That experiment became Cyborg, our recruiting agent. It scrapes agency team pages, RocketReach, TheOrg, and press releases. Sources 80+ candidates per day across 4 open roles. Scores each one against a detailed rubric. Runs personalized drip outreach. Checks for replies.
Our recruiter said she likes using it more than the AI recruiting tool we pay for (which has raised $30M+)
The feedback loop is the real unlock. Our team reacts in Slack with thumbs up or down. The agent learns from every approval and rejection. It gets better at sourcing every single week.
Btw that's all moving to a dashboard soon.
A Google conference from a cold CRM
My network has 13,000+ contacts. One of our agents scanned the entire database, found the right connection path to Google, and booked a meeting.
That meeting turned into an invite to speak at a Google conference.
No warm intro. No networking event. An agent reading through a CSV and figuring out the right angle to approach with.
Content that actually gets views
Flash, our content agent, was on a tear with X articles, averaging 85,000 views per article.
We're testing another system with Phoenix where we just let it yolo with content.
The system runs on a loop. 6am expert intelligence scan. 7am article draft. Midday engagement. Evening reflection. Every night it analyzes what performed and adjusts the next day's strategy.
On Instagram, our agent generates data-driven dot graph posts daily. One post hit 40,000 views.
These aren't viral flukes. They're compounding systems.
DAILY CONTENT ENGINE
6:00am ─── Expert scan
│
7:00am ─── Article draft
│
12:00pm ── Engagement
│
9:00pm ─── Reflection
│
▼
Adjust strategy
│
Next morning ───►
(repeat, better)
Views per article:
Week 1  ██░░░░░░░░  22K
Week 4  ████░░░░░░  45K
Week 8  ████████░░  85K
Sales team running on autopilot
Arrow, our sales agent, runs daily pipeline sweeps across HubSpot. Every Thursday it digests Gong call intelligence: objections, competitor mentions, sentiment patterns. It does daily check-ins with reps and tracks accountability.
The biggest finding: our average speed-to-lead was 40-50 minutes for first contact. We're trying to get that even lower now. We're building a webhook system to fix it. The agent found the problem. A human never would have measured it.
SEO that doesn't wait for quarterly reviews
Oracle runs weekly SEO reports from Google Search Console and Google Analytics data. It detects content decay before traffic drops. It monitors how our pages show up in AI search results. When a page needs a refresh, it auto-generates a WordPress draft created by our SEO software,__ ClickFlow.__
No more waiting for a quarterly SEO review to realize a page died 2 months ago.
Content repurposing without a team
Flash takes every new YouTube and podcast episode and extracts every distinct moment. Each moment gets scored. Only 90+ passes the gate. Then it generates platform-specific drafts for X, LinkedIn, Instagram, short-form video, and newsletter.
A calibration system tracks what performs on each platform and feeds that back into scoring. The bar rises automatically.
140M+ podcast downloads across years of episodes. That's a massive content library collecting dust without a system like this.
The CEO operating system
Every morning I get a briefing: calendar, commitments I've made (scanned from meeting transcripts and Slack), and CRM nudges for contacts I should reach out to.
Every evening I get a preview of tomorrow.
Every week I get a metrics ritual with accountability against my own stated goals.
The uncomfortable part: it catches promises I forgot I made. It holds me accountable better than any human chief of staff.
The infrastructure nobody talks about
AGENT ECOSYSTEM
┌─────────┐ ┌─────────┐
│ Alfred  │ │ Oracle  │
│ (ops)   │ │ (SEO)   │
└────┬────┘ └────┬────┘
│           │
┌────┴───────────┴────┐
│    64 cron jobs     │
│   daily/weekly      │
│   nightly sync      │
└────┬───────────┬────┘
│           │
┌────┴────┐ ┌───┴─────┐
│ Cyborg  │ │  Arrow  │
│(recruit)│ │ (sales) │
└─────────┘ └─────────┘
┌─────────┐ ┌─────────┐
│  Flash  │ │ Phoenix │
│(content)│ │(articles│
└─────────┘ └─────────┘
6 specialized agents. 64 cron jobs. Daily backups. Nightly memory sync. Weekly memory compounding.
The agents modify their own cron payloads based on performance data. Phoenix changed its own posting time after it noticed evening posts outperformed morning ones. Cyborg adjusted its scoring weights after a week of team rejections on a certain candidate profile.
Self-healing systems that get better without you touching them.
The uncomfortable truth
This countless hours of daily debugging. Agents broke constantly. They hallucinated results. They sent embarrassing messages. One agent confidently reported finishing a task it never started.
Building this was not fun. Maintaining it is not glamorous. Most days involve fixing something that broke overnight.
But the alternative is a team of 15 people doing what 6 agents do now. And those 15 people don't run 64 times a day. They don't scan 13,000 contacts in minutes. They don't resurface $6.6M in dead pipeline while everyone sleeps.
Everyone says AI agents are a waste of time because they built a chatbot and called it an agent. We built revenue systems. The $6.6M in resurrected pipeline alone paid for everything.
Worth it? Look at the numbers and decide for yourself.
If you're AI-obsessed and want to work with us, try our 'beat AI' challenge ;)__ https://www.singlegrain.com/apply__
For more like this, level up your marketing with 14,000+ marketers and founders in my Leveling Up newsletter here for free:__ https://levelingup.beehiiv.com/subscribe__
Want to publish your own Article?
